Owner's Manual
Movement that inspires
Sportage

vehicle."
A WARNING - California
"Operating, servicing and maintaining
a passenger vehicle or off-road
vehicle can expose you to chemicals
including engine exhaust, carbon
monoxide, phthalates, and lead, which
are known to the State of California
to cause cancer and birth defects or
other reproductive harm. To minimize
exposure, avoid breathing exhaust, do
not idle the engine except as necessary,
service your vehicle in a well-ventilated
area and wear gloves or wash your
hands frequently when servicing your
vehicle. For more information go to
www.P65Warnings.ca.gov/passenger-
Proposition 65

FOREWORD
Dear Customer,
Thank you for selecting your new Kia vehicle.
As a global car manufacturer focused on building high-quality vehicles with exceptional value, Kia is dedicated to providing you with a customer service experience that
exceeds your expectations.
This Owner's Manual is valid for all variants of your model, and describes all options,
features, and equipment available, along with the maintenance needs. Therefore, this
manual may also describe optional equipment not purchased on your vehicle, country
specifications, and functions and features not available in your region. Please always
keep this manual in the vehicle for your and any subsequent owner's reference.
Authorized Kia Dealerships provide factory-trained technicians, utilized recommended special service tools, and supply genuine Kia replacement parts to help you
maintain and service your vehicle during your ownership.All information contained in this Owner's Manual was accurate at the time of publication. However, as Kia continues to make improvements to its products, the company
reserves the right to make changes to this manual or any of its vehicles at any time
without notice and without incurring any obligations.
Please drive safely, and enjoy your Kia vehicle!
© 2023 Kia America, Inc.All rights reserved. May not be reproduced or translated in whole or in part without the written consent of Kia
America, Inc.
Printed in Korea

How to use this manual
We want to help you get the greatest
possible driving experience from your
vehicle. Your Owner's Manual can assist
you in many ways.
We strongly recommend that you read
the entire manual. In order to minimize
the chance of death or injury, you must
read the WARNING and CAUTION sections in the manual.
illustrations complement the words in
this manual to best explain how to enjoy
your vehicle. By reading your manual,
you learn about features, important
safety information, and driving tips
under various road conditions.
The general layout of the manual is provided in the Table of Contents. Use the
index when looking for a specific area or
subject, it has an alphabetical listing of
all information in your manual.
Chapters: This manual has nine chapters
plus an index. Each chapter begins with
a brief list of contents so you can tell at a
glance if that chapter has the information you want.
You will find various WARNINGS, CAU-
TIONS, and NOTICES in this manual.
These WARNINGS were prepared to
enhance your personal safety. You
should carefuly read and follow ALL
procedures and recommendations provided in these WARNINGS, CAUTIONS
and NOTICES.
CAUTION
A CAUTION indicates a situation in
which damage to your vehicle could
result if the caution is ignored.
NOTICE
A NOTICE indicates interesting or helpful
information is being provided.
WARNING
A WARNING indicates a situation in
which harm, serious bodily injury or
death could result if the warning is
ignored.

Table of Contents
Specifications, Consumer information and Reporting safety defects 9
Your vehicle at a glance 3
Safety features of your vehicle 3
Features of your vehicle 4
Driving your vehicle 5
Driver assistance system 6
What to do in an emergency O
Introduction O
Maintenance B
Abbreviation A
Index O

Introduction
Fuel requirements
Vehicle modifications
Vehicle break-in proces.* •••I•
Risk of burns when parking or stopping vehicle
• Vehicle handling instructions
• Open Source Software Notice
Vehicle data collection and Event Data Recorders
..1-2
1-4
.. 1-5
..1-5
1-6
1-6

Introduction
Introduction
Fuel requirements
Your new vehicle is designed to use only
unleaded fuel having a pump octane
number ((R+M)/2) of 87 (Research
Octane Number 91) or higher. (Do not
use methanol blended fuels.)
Your new vehicle is designed to obtain
maximum performance with UNLEADED
FUEL, as well as minimize exhaust emissions and spark plug fouling.
Never add any fuel system cleaning
agents to the fuel tank other than what
has been specified. (Consult an authorized Kia dealer for details.)
- Tighten the cap until it clicks one time,
otherwise the Check Engine light will
appear.
WARNING
Refueling
- Do not "top off" after the nozzle automatically shuts off. Attempts to force
more fuel into the tank can cause fuel
overflow onto you and the ground,
causing a risk of fire.
- Always check that the fuel cap is
installed securely to prevent fuel spillage, especially in the event of an accident.
Fuel requirements
Gasoline containing alcohol and
methanol
Gasohol, a mixture of gasoline and ethanol (also known as grain alcohol), and
gasoline or gasohol containing methanol
(also known as wood alcohol) are being
marketed along with or instead of
leaded or unleaded gasoline.
Pursuant to Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) regulations, ethanol may
be used in your vehicle.
Do not use gasohol containing more
than 15% ethanol, and do not use gasoline or gasohol containing any methanol.
Ethanol provides less energy than gasoline and attracts water. Thus, it is likely to
reduce your fuel efficiency and could
lower your MPG results.
Methanol may cause drivability problems and damage to the fuel system,
engine control system and emission
control system.
Discontinue using gasohol of any kind if
drivability problems occur.
Vehicle damage or drivability problems
may not be covered by the manufacturer's warranty if they result from the
use of:
1. Gasoline or gasohol containing methanol.
2.Leaded fuel or leaded gasohol.
3.Gasohol containing more than 15%
ethanol.
"E85" fuel is an alternative fuel comprised of 85% ethanol and 15% gasoline,
and is manufactured exclusively for use
in Flexible Fuel Vehicles. "E85" is not
compatible with your vehicle. Use of
"E85" may result in poor engine performance and damage to your vehicle's
engine and fuel system. Kia recommends that customers do not use fuel
with an ethanol content exceeding 15%.

Introduction NOTICE
Your New Vehicle Limited Warranty
does not cover damage to the fuel system or any performance problems
caused by the use of "E85" fuel.
NOTICE
Never use any fuel containing methanol.
Discontinue use of any methanol containing products which may inhibit
proper drivability.
Other fuels
Using fuels that contain Silicone (Si),
MMT (Methylcyclopentadienyl Manganese Tricarbonyl), Manganese (Mn) contained fuel, and other metallic additives,
may cause vehicle and engine damage
or cause misfiring, poor acceleration,
engine stalling, catalyst melting, clogging, abnormal corrosion, life cycle
reduction, etc.
Also, the Malfunction Indicator Lamp
(MIL) may appear.
NOTICE
Damage to the fuel system or performance problems caused by the use of
these other fuels may not be covered by
your New Vehicle Limited Warranty.
Gasoline containing MMT
Some gasoline contains harmful manganese- based fuel additives Such as MMT
(Methylcyclopentadienyl Manganese Tricarbonyl). Kia does not recommend the
use of gasoline containing MMT. This
type of fuel can reduce vehicle performance and affect your emission control
Fuel requirements
system. The Malfunction Indicator Lamp
(MIL) on the cluster may come on.
Do not use methanol
Fuels containing methanol (wood alcohol) should not be used in your vehicle.
This type of fuel can reduce vehicle performance and damage components of
the fuel system, engine control system
and emission control system.
Fuel Additives
Kia recommends that you use good
quality gasolines treated with detergent
additives such as TOP TIER Detergent
Gasoline, which help prevent deposit
formation in the engine. These gasolines
will help the engine run cleaner and
enhance performance of the emission
control system.
For more information on TOP TIER
Detergent Gasoline, please go to the
website (www.toptiergas.com) For customers who do not use TOP TIER Detergent Gasoline regularly, and have
problems starting or the engine does not
run smoothly, additives that you can buy
separately may be added to the gasoline.
If TOP TIER Detergent Gasoline is not
available, one bottle of additive should
be added to the fuel tank at every 8,000
miles (13,000 km) or every engine oil
change is recommended. Additives are
available from your authorized Kia
dealer along with information on how to
use them. Do not mix other additives.

Introduction
Vehicle modifications
Operation in foreign countries
If you are going to drive your vehicle in
another country, be sure to:
- Observe all regulations regarding registration and insurance.
- Determine that acceptable fuel is
available.
Vehicle modifications
This vehicle should not be modified.
Modification of your vehicle could affect
its performance, safety or durability and
may even violate governmental safety
and emissions regulations.
NOTICE
Damage or performance problems
resulting from any modification may not
be covered under warranty.
CAUTION
If you use unauthorized electronic
devices, it may cause the vehicle to
operate abnormally, wire damage, battery discharge and fire. For your safety,
do not use unauthorized electronic
devices.

Introduction Vehicle break-in process
By following a few simple precautions
for the first 600 miles (1,000 km) you
may add to the performance, economy
and life of your vehicle.
- Do not race the engine.
- While driving, keep your engine speed
(rpm, or revolutions per minute)
between 2,000 rpm and 4,000 rpm.
- Do not maintain a single engine speed
for long periods of time, either fast or
slow. Varying engine speeds is
needed to properly break-in the
engine.
- Avoid hard stops, except in emergencies, to allow the brakes to seat properly.
- Don't tow a trailer during the first
1,200 miles (2,000 km) of operation.
- Fuel economy and engine performance may vary depending on vehicle break-in process and be stabilized
after 4,000 miles (6,000 km). New
engines may consume more oil during
the vehicle break-in period.
Vehicle break-in process
Risk of burns when parking or
stopping vehicle
- Do not park or stop the vehicle near
flammable items such as leaves,
paper, oil, and tire. Such items placed
near the exhaust system can become
a fire hazard.
- When an engine idles at a high speed
with the rear side of the vehicle touching the wall, heat of the exhaust gas
can cause discoloration or fire. Keep
enough space between the rear part
of the vehicle and the wall.
- Be sure not to touch the exhaust/catalytic systems while engine is running
or right after the engine is turned off.
There is a risk of burns since the systems are extremely hot.
Vehicle handling instructions
As with other vehicles of this type, failure
to operate this vehicle correctly may
result in loss of control, an accident or
vehicle rollover.
Specific design characteristics (higher
ground clearance, track, etc.) give this
vehicle a higher center of gravity than
other types of vehicles. In other words
they are not designed for cornering at
the same speeds as conventional 2-
wheel drive vehicles.
Avoid sharp turns or abrupt maneuvers.
Again, failure to operate this vehicle correctly may result in loss of control, an
accident or vehicle rollover.
Be sure to read the "Reducing the risk
of a rollover" on page 5-54.

Introduction
Vehicle data collection and Event Data Recorders
Open Source Software Notice
This vehicle contains software with open
source licenses.
Open source software information
including the source code, copyright
notices and referred license terms may
be obtained on the website
http://worldwide.kia.com/int/opensource
Kia Corporation will provide the open
source code to you in storage medium
such as CD-ROM for minimum charge
covering the cost of performing source
distribution upon email request to
opensource@kia.com
within a period of 3 years from the date
of product purchase.
Vehicle data collection and
Event Data Recorders
This vehicle is equipped with
an Event Data Recorder (EDR).
The main purpose of an EDR is
to record, in certain crash or
near crash-like situations, such
as an air bag deployment or
hitting a road obstacle, data
that will assist in understanding how a vehicle's systems
performed. The EDR is
designed to record data
related to vehicle dynamics
and safety systems for a short
period of time, typically 30 seconds or less. The EDR in this
vehicle is designed to record
such data as:
- How various systems in your
vehicle were operating;
- Whether or not the driver
and passenger safety belts
were buckled/fastened;
- How far (if at all) the driver
was depressing the accelerator and/or brake pedal; and,
- How fast the vehicle was
traveling.
These data can help provide a
better understanding of the
circumstances in which crashes
and injuries occur. NOTE: EDR
data are recorded by your
vehicle only if a non-trivial
crash situation occurs; no data
are recorded by the EDR under

Introduction Vehicle data collection and Event Data Recorders
normal driving conditions and
no personal data (e.g., name,
gender, age, and crash location) are recorded. However,
other parties, such as law
enforcement, could combine
the EDR data with the type of
personally identifying data
routinely acquired during a
crash investigation.
To read data recorded by an
EDR, special equipment is
required, and access to the
vehicle or the EDR is needed. In
addition to the vehicle manufacturer, other parties, such as
law enforcement, that have the
special equipment, can read
the information if they have
access to the vehicle or the
EDR.

Your vehicle at a glance 2
Exterior overview ..
Interior overview ..
Instrument panel overview
Engine compartmen • 2-8
..2-2
2-4
..2-6
• 2-8

Your vehicle at a glance
Your vehicle at a glance
Exterior overview
Front view
1. Hood
2. Head lamp
3. Wheel and tire
4. Outside rear view mirror
5. Panoramic sunroot
6. Front windshield wiper blades
7. Windows
8. Front ultrasonic sensor
9. Front radar
10.Front view camera
11. Front fog lamp
Exterior overview

Your vehicle at a glance Exterior overview
12.Roof rack
13.Wide-front view camera
Rear view
1. Doors
2. Fuel filler door
3. Rear combination lamp
4. High mounted stop lamp
5. Liftgate
6. Antenna
7. Wide-rear view camera
8. Rear ultrasonic sensor
9. Rear wiper
10.Backup lamp
Exterior overview
00)

Your vehicle at a glance Interior overview
Interior overview
1. Inside door handle
2. Seat position memory system
3. Outside rearview mirror control switch
4. Central door lock/unlock switch
5. Power window switches (Front)
6. Power window switches (Rear)
7. Power window lock button
8. Steering wheel tilt/telescopic lever
9. Steering wheel
10.Adjusting instrument cluster illumination
11. ESC OFF button
12.EPB switch
13. Power liftgate open/close button

Your vehicle at a glance Interior overview
14.Hood release lever
15.Instrument panel fuse
16.Seat
17.Shift lever
18. Brake pedal

Your vehicle at a glance Instrument panel overview
Instrument panel overview
1. Audio remote control button
2. Driver's front air bag
3. Horn
4. Driving Assist button 6-58, 6-60
5. Instrument cluster
6. Light control/turn signals lever
7. Wiper and washer control lever
8. Infotainment system
9. Hazard warning flasher switch
10. Climate control system
Infotainment/climate switchable controller
11. ENGINE START/STOP button
12.Front seat warmer and air ventilation seat button

Your vehicle at a glance Instrument panel overview
13. Heated steering wheel button
14.Downhill Brake Control (DBC) button
15.AUTO HOLD button
16.ISG system Off button
17.Parking Safety button
18. Parking/View button
19.Drive mode integrated control system
20.Wireless smartphone charging system
21.Center console storage box
22.Passenger's front air bag
23. Glove box
5-50 2

Your vehicle at a glance Engine compartment
Engine compartment
Smartstream G2.5 GDi
1. Engine coolant reservoir
2. Brake fluid reservoir
3. Air cleaner
4. Engine oil tiller cap
5. Engine oil dipstick
6. Windshield washer fluid reservoir
7. Positive battery terminal 7-5, 8-26
8. Negative battery terminal 7-5,8-26
9. Fuse box

Safety features of your vehicle
Safety features of your vehicle
Important safety precautions 3-3
Seat 3-5
- Feature of Seat Leather 3-7
- Infotainment system 3-8
- Front seat adjustment for manual seat 3-8
- Front seat adjustment for power seat 3-9
- Headrest for front seat 3-11
- Seatback pocket (if equipped) 3-13
- Headrest for rear seat 3-13
- Armrest 3-14
- Folding the rear seat 3-14
Seat belts 3-17
- Seat belt restraint system 3-17
- Driver's seat belt warning 3-18
- Front passenger's seat belt warning 3-19
- Seat belt - Driver's 3-point system with emergency locking
retractor 3-19
- Seat belts - Front passenger and rear seat 3-point system with
combination locking retractor 3-20
- Pre-tensioner seat belt 3-22
- Seat belt precautions 3-24
- Care of seat belts 3-25
Child Restraint System (CRS) 3-26
- Children always in the rear 3-26
- Selecting a CRS 3-27
- installing a CRS 3-29
Air bag - advanced Supplemental Restraint System 3-34
- How does the air bag system operate? 3-35
- Do not install a child restraint on the front passenger's seat 3-36
- Air bag warning light 3-36

3 Safety features of your vehicle
- Supplemental Restraint System (SRS) components and
functions 3-37
- Occupant Detection System (ODS) 3-39
- Driver's and passenger's front air bag 3-43
- Side air bag 3-45
- Curtain air bag 3-47
- Air bag collision sensors 3-48
- Why didn't my air bag go off in a collision? (Inflation and noninflation conditions of the air bag) 3-49
- Supplemental Restraint System (SRS) care 3-51
- Additional safety precautions 3-52
- Adding equipment to or modifying your air bag-equipped
vehicle 3-53
- Air bag warning labels 3-53

Safety features of your vehicle Safety features of your
vehicle
For the safety of the driver and vehicle
passengers, you should become familiar
with the vehicle's safety features.
Important safety precautions
You will find many safety precautions
and recommendations throughout this
section, and throughout this manual.
The safety precautions in this section are
among the most important.
Always wear your seat belt
A seat belt is your best protection in al
types of accidents. Air bags are
designed to supplement seat belts, not
replace them. So even though your vehicle is equipped with air bags, ALWAYS
fasten your seat belt and make sure al
of your passengers have properly fastened their seat belts or restraints before
placing vehicle in motion.
Restrain all childrenAll children under age 13 should ride in
your vehicle properly restrained in a rear
seat, not the front seat. Infants and small
children should be restrained in an
appropriate child restraint. Larger children should use a booster seat with the
lap/shoulder belt until they can use the
seat belt properly without a booster seat.
Air bag hazards
While air bags can save lives, they can
also cause serious or fatal injuries to
occupants who sit too close to them, or
who are not properly restrained. Infants,
young children, and shorter adults are at
the greatest risk of being injured by an
Important safety precautions
inflating air bag. follow all instructions
and warnings in this manual.
Driver distraction
Driver distraction presents a serious and
potentially deadly danger, especially for
inexperienced drivers. Safety should be
the first concern when behind the wheel
and drivers need to be aware of the wide
array of potential distractions, such as
drowsiness, reaching for objects, eating,
personal grooming, other passengers,
and using celular phones.
Drivers can become distracted when
they take their eyes and attention off the
road or their hands off the wheel to
focus on activities other than driving. To
reduce your risk of distraction or getting
into an accident:
- ALWAYS set up your mobile devices
(i.e., MP3 players, phones, navigation
units, etc.) when your vehicle is
parked or safely stopped.
- ONLY use your mobile device when
allowed by laws and when conditions
permit safe use. NEVER text or email
while driving. Most states have laws
prohibiting drivers from texting. Some
states and cities also prohibit drivers
from using handheld phones.
- NEVER let the use of a mobile device
distract you from driving. You have a
responsibility to your passengers and
others on the road to always drive
safely, with your hands on the wheel
as well as your eyes and attention on
the road.

posted.
tion
Safety features of your vehicle
Control your speed
Excessive speed is a major factor in
crash injuries and deaths. Generally, the
higher the speed, the greater the risk,
but serious injuries can also occur at
lower speeds. Never drive faster than is
safe for current driving conditions,
regardless of the maximum speed
Keep your vehicle in safe condi-
Having a tire blowout or a mechanical
failure can be extremely hazardous. To
reduce the possibility of such problems,
check your tire pressures and conditions
frequently, and perform all regularly
scheduled maintenance.
Important safety precautions

Safety features of your vehicle
Seat
Front seat
1. Sliding: Forward and Backward
2. Reclining: Back angle
3. Seat cushion height
4. Seat cushion tilt
5. Lumbar support*
6. Driver position memory system*
7. Headrest
Rear seat
8. Seat back angle/folding
9. Armrest
10.Headrest
11. Seatback folding*
*: if equipped
ONQ5
Seat

Safety features of your vehicle
WARNING
Loose objects
Loose objects in the driver's foot area
could interfere with the operation of the
foot pedals, possibly causing an accident. Do not place anything under the
front seats.
WARNING
Uprighting seat
Do not press the release lever on a manual seatback without holding and controlling the seatback. The seatback will
spring upright, possibly striking you or
other passengers.
WARNING
Driver responsibility for passengers
The driver must advise the passengers
to keep the seatback in an upright position whenever the vehicle is in motion. If
a seat is reclined during an accident, the
restraint system's ability to restrain the
passenger will be greatly reduced.
WARNING
Seat cushion
Occupants should never sit on aftermarket seat cushions or sitting cushions. The
passenger Occupant Detection System
may not operate properly, or the passenger's hips may slide under the lap
Seat
portion of the seat belt during an accident or a sudden stop.
WARNING
Driver's seat
- Never attempt to adjust the seat while
the vehicle is moving. This could result
in loss of control of your vehicle.
- Do not allow anything to interfere with
the normal position of the seatback.
For example, storing items against the
seatback could overload the seat back
in a sudden stop or collision resulting
in serious or fatal injury.
- Sit as far back as possible from the
steering wheel while still maintaining
comfortable control of the your vehicle. A distance of at least 10 in (25 cm)
from your chest to the steering wheel
is recommended. Failure to do so can
result in air bag inflation injuries to the
driver.
WARNING
Rear seatbacks
Always lock the rear seatback before
driving. Failure to do so could result in
passengers or objects being thrown forward, injuring vehicle occupants.
WARNING
Unexpected Seat Movement
After adjusting a manual seat, always
check that it is locked by shifting your
weight to the front and to the back. Sudden or unexpected movement of the
driver's seat could cause you to lose
control of the vehicle.

Safety features of your vehicle WARNING
Seat adjustment
- Do not adjust the seat while wearing
seat belts. Moving the seat forward
will cause strong pressure on the
abdomen.
- Do not place your hand near the seat
bottom or seat track while adjusting
the seat. Your hand could get caught
in the seat mechanism.
WARNING
Luggage and Cargo
Do not stack or pile luggage or cargo
higher than the seatback in the cargo
area. In an accident the cargo could
strike and injure a passenger. If objects
are large, heavy or must be piled, they
must be secured in the cargo area.
WARNING
Cargo Area
Do not allow passengers to ride in the
cargo area under any circumstance. The
cargo area is solely for the purpose of
transporting luggage or cargo.
WARNING
Small Objects
Use extreme caution when picking up
small objects trapped under the seats or
between the seat and the center console. Your hands might be cut or injured
by the sharp edges of the seats mechanism.
Seat
Feature of Seat Leather
- Our car seats are upholstered with a
combination of artificial and genuine
leather. The genuine leather is made
from the outer skin of an animal,
which goes through a special process
to be available for use. Since it is a
natural substance, each part differs in
thickness or density. Also, wrinkles
could appear depending on the temperature and humidity.
- The seat cover is made of stretchable
material to improve comfort of passengers.
- The parts contacting the body are
curved and the side supporting area is
high which provides driving comfort
and stability.
CAUTION
- Belts with metallic accessories, zippers or keys inside the back pocket
may damage the seat fabric.
- Make sure not to wet the seat. It may
change the nature of leather.
- Jeans or clothes which could bleach
may contaminate the surface of the
seat covering fabric.
NOTICE
Wrinkles or abrasions may appear naturally from usage. It is not a fault of product. Wrinkles or abrasions are not
covered by warranty.

Safety features of your vehicle
Infotainment system
Select Setting → Vehicle → Seat from
the Settings menu in the infotainment
system screen, you may use various
convenience functions.
- Seat position change alert: When the
seat position changes, details of the
change are shown with a seat image.
- Seat Easy Access
- Steering easy access: Moves the
steering wheel when the driver
enters or leaves the vehicle.
- Seat Slide Easy Access (fwd/awd)
access (Normal/Extended/Off)
the seat automatically moves when
the driver enters or leaves the vehicle may be selected.
The information provided may differ
according to which functions are applicable to your vehicle.
INFORMATION
The infotainment system may change
after software updates. For more information, refer to the user`s manual provided in the infotainment system and
the quick reference guide.
Seat
Front seat adjustment for manual seat
The front seat can be adjusted by using
the control levers located on the outside
of the seat cushion.
Moving forward and backward
Adjust the seat before driving, and make
sure the seat is locked securely by trying
to move forward and backward without
using the lever. If the seat moves, it is
not locked properly.
To move the seat forward or backward:
1. Pull the seat slide adjustment lever up
and hold it.
2.Slide the seat to the position you
desire.
3.Release the lever and make sure the
seat is locked in place.

Safety features of your vehicle Reclining seatback
To recline the seatback:
1. Lean forward slightly and lift up the
seatback recline lever.
2.Carefuly lean back on the seat and
adjust the seatback of the seat to the
position you desire.
3.Release the lever and make sure the
seatback is locked in place. (The lever
MUST return to its original position for
the seatback to lock.)
WARNING
Reclining seatback
Sitting in a reclined position when the
vehicle is in motion can be dangerous.
Even when buckled up, the protections
of your restraint system (seat belts and/
or air bags) are greatly reduced by
reclining your seatback.
Seat belts must be snug against your
hips and chest to work properly. When
the seatback is reclined, the shoulder
belt cannot do its job because it will not
be snug against your chest. Instead, it
will be in front of you. During an accident, you could be thrown into the seat
belt, causing neck or other injuries.
The more the seatback is reclined, the
greater chance the passenger's hips will
slide under the lap belt or the passen-
Seat
ger's neck will strike or become entangled in the shoulder belt.
Changing seat cushion height (if
equipped)
To change the height of the seat cushion, push the lever upwards or downwards.
- To lower the seat cushion, push down
the lever several times.
- To raise the seat cushion, pull up the
lever several times.
Front seat adjustment for power
seat (if equipped)
The front seat can be adjusted by using
the control switches located on the outside of the seat cushion.
Before driving, adjust the seat to the
proper position so you can easily control
the steering wheel, pedals and switches
on the instrument panel.
CAUTION
Power seating adjustments
- The power seating controls function
by electronic motor. Excessive operation may cause damage to the electrical equipment.
- Do not operate two or more power
seat control switches at the same

Safety features of your vehicle
time. Doing so may damage the
power seat motor or electrical components.
Moving forward and backward
To move the seat forward or backward:
1. Push the control switch forward or
backward to move the seat to the
desired position.
2.Release the switch once the seat
reaches the desired position.
Reclining seatback
To recline the seatback:
1. Push the control switch forward or
backward to move the seatback to the
desired angle
Seat
2.Release the switch once the seat
reaches the desired position.
Changing seat cushion tilt and
height
To change the height of the seat:
- Pull the front portion (1) of the control
switch up to raise or press down to
lower the front part of the seat cushion.
- Pull the rear portion (2) of the control
switch up to raise or press down to
lower the back part of the seat cushion.
- Release the switch once the seat
reaches the desired position.

Safety features of your vehicle Adjusting lumbar support for
driver's seat (if equipped)
The lumbar support can be adjusted by
pressing the lumbar support switch on
the side of the seat.
1. Press the front portion (1) of the
switch to increase support, or the rear
portion (2) of the switch, to decrease
support.
2.Release the switch once it reaches the
desired position.
Headrest for front seat
The driver's and front passenger's seats
are equipped with a headrest for the
occupant's safety and comfort.
The headrest not only provides comfort
for the driver and front passenger, but
also helps protect the head and neck in
the event of a collision.
For maximum effectiveness in case of
an accident, the headrest should be
adjusted so the middle of the headrest is
as high as the center of gravity of an
Seat
occupant's head. Generally, the center of
gravity of most people's head is similar
with the height of the top of their eyes.
Also, adjust the headrest as close to your
head as possible. For this reason, the use
of a cushion that holds the body away
from the seatback is not recommended.
WARNING
Headrest removal/adjustment
- Do not operate the vehicle with the
headrests removed. Headrests can
provide critical neck and head support in a crash. Operating the vehicle
without the headrest in position could
lead to serious injury or death.
- Do not adjust the headrest height
while the vehicle is in motion. Driver
may lose control of the vehicle.
CAUTION
Excessive pulling or pushing may damage the headrest.
Adjusting the height up and
down
To raise the headrest:
- Pull it up to the desired position (1).
- To lower the headrest, push and hold
the release button (2) on the headrest
support.
- Lower the headrest to the desired
position (3).

Safety features of your vehicle
* NOTICE
It you recline the seatback towards the
front with the headrest and seat cushion
raised, the headrest may come in contact with the sun visor or other parts of
the vehicle.
Removing headrest
Type A
Type B
To remove the headrest:
Seat
1. Recline the seatback (2) With the
recline lever or switch (1).
2. Raise headrest as far as it can go.
3. Press the headrest release button (3)
while pulling the headrest up (4).
A WARNING
Removing headrest
NEVER allow anyone to ride in a seat
with the headrest removed or reversed.
Headrests can provide critical neck and
head support in a crash.
Reinstalling headrest
Type A
Type B
To reinstall the headrest:

Safety features of your vehicle 1. Put the headrest poles (2) into the
holes while pressing the release button (1).
2.Recline the seatback (4) with the
recline lever or switch (3).
3.Adjust the headrest to the appropriate
height.
WARNING
Headrest Reinstallation
To reduce the risk of injury to the head
or neck, always make sure the headrest
is locked into position and adjusted
properly after reinstalling.
Seatback pocket (if equipped)
There is a pocket (1) in the front seat
back for storing simple books or atlases,
and USB charger (2) (if equipped) for
rear passengers.
WARNING
Seatback pockets
Do not put heavy or sharp objects in the
seatback pockets. In an accident they
could come loose from the pocket and
injure vehicle occupants.
Seat
Headrest for rear seat
The rear seat is equipped with headrests
in all the seating positions for the occupant's safety and comfort.
The headrest not only provides comfort
for passengers, but also helps protect
the head and neck in the event of a collision.
For maximum effectiveness in case of
an accident, the headrest should be
adjusted so the middle of the headrest is
level with the seat occupant's eyes.
Also, adjust the headrest as close to your
head as possible. For this reason, the use
of a cushion that holds the body away
from the seatback is not recommended.
Adjusting the height up and
down
- To raise the headrest, pull it up to the
desired position (1).
- To lower the headrest, push and hold
the release button (2) on the headrest

Safety features of your vehicle
support and lower the headrest to the
desired position (3).
Removal and reinstallation (if
equipped)
- To remove the headrest, raise it as far
as it can go then press the release
button (1) while pulling the headrest
upward (2).
- To reinstall the headrest, put the
headrest poles (3) into the holes while
pressing the release button (1).
Then adjust it to the appropriate height
and ensure that it locks in position.
Armrest (if equipped)
To use the armrest, pull it forward from
the seatback.
Seat
Folding the rear seat
The rear seatbacks may be folded to
facilitate carrying long items or to
increase the luggage capacity of the
vehicle.
WARNING
Folded Seatback
The purpose of the fold-down rear seatbacks is to allow you to carry longer
objects that could not otherwise be
accommodated.
- Never allow a passenger to sit on top
of the folded down seatback while the
car is moving. This is not a proper
seating position since no seat belts
are available for use. This could result
in serious injury or death, for example,
in case of an accident or sudden stop.
WARNING
When folding the seatback, be sure to
hold the seatback or headrest with your
hands.
CAUTION
When folding or unfolding a rear seat,
make sure to lower the seat's headrest
as much as possible and put the front
seat's seatback in the upright position.
If there is any interference when folding
or unfolding the seat, the interfered area
of the seat may be damaged.

Safety features of your vehicle Folding down the rear seatback
1. Set the front seatback to the upright
position and, if necessary, slide the
front seat forward.
2.Lower the rear headrests to the lowest
position.
WARNING
Objects
Objects carried on the folded down seatback should not extend higher than the
top of the front seatbacks. Otherwise,
cargo may slide forward and cause
injury or damage during sudden stops.
3.When folding the seatback, insert the
rear seat belt buckle in the pocket
between the rear seatback and cushion. Make sure both seat belts do not
interfere with stowed luggage and
cargo. Then, the seat belt webbing
should be placed in the webbing
guide to prevent the seat belt from
being damaged by loaded cargo, etc.
If the seat belt is loose, it may cause
damage or noise. In that case, return
the seatback to the upright position
and put the webbing out from the
guide to realign it.
Seat
4.Pull on the seatback folding lever,
then fold the seat toward the front of
the vehicle. When you return the seatback to its upright position, always be
sure it has locked into position by
pushing on the top of the seatback.
Type A
Type B (if equipped)

Safety features of your vehicle
Unfolding the rear seat
1. To use the rear seat, lift and pull the
seatback backward while pulling on
the seatback folding lever. Pull the
seatback firmly until it clicks into
place. Make sure the seatback is
locked in place. When you return the
seatback to its upright position,
always be sure it has locked into position by pushing on the top of the seatback.
2.Return the rear seat belt to the proper
position.
3.When the seatback is completely
installed, check the seatback folding
lever again.
4.If you want to tilt the rear seatback a
bit more, while pulling on the seatback folding lever and push the top of
the rear seatback towards the rear.
Then release the lever and make sure
that the rear seat is firmly locked.
WARNING
Uprighting seat
When you return the seatback to its
upright position, hold the seatback and
return it slowly. If the seatback is
returned without holding it, the back of
the seat could spring forward, resulting
in injury caused by being struck by the
seatback.
Seat
WARNING
Rear seatback
When returning the rear seat to the
upright position:
- Be careful not to damage the seat belt
webbing or buckle.
- Do not allow the seat belt webbing or
buckle to become pinched or caught
in the rear seat.
- Ensure the seatback is completely
locked into its upright position by
pushing on the top of the seatback.
Failure to adhere to any of these
instructions could result in serious
injury or death in the event of a crash.
CAUTION
Damaging rear seat belt buckles
When you fold the rear seatback, insert
the buckle between the rear seatback
and cushion. Doing so can prevent the
buckle from being damaged by the rear
seatback.
CAUTION
Rear seat belts
When returning the rear seatbacks to
the upright position, remember to return
the rear shoulder belts to their proper
position.
WARNING
Unless the driver's position is properly
set according to the driver's physical figure, do not fold the rear seat. It may
increase bodily injuries in a sudden stop
or collision.

Safety features of your vehicle CAUTION
Be careful when loading cargo through
the rear passenger seats to prevent
damage to the vehicle interior.
WARNING
Cargo
Cargo should always be secured to prevent it from being thrown about the
vehicle in a collision and causing injury
to the vehicle occupants. Do not place
objects in the rear seats, since they cannot be properly secured and may hit the
front seat occupants in a collision.
Cargo loading
Make sure the engine is off, the transmission is in P (Park) and the parking
brake is securely applied whenever loading or unloading cargo. Failure to take
these steps may allow the vehicle to
move if the shift lever is inadvertently
moved to another position.
Seat belts
Seat belts
Seat belts are designed to bear upon the
bony structure of the body, and should
be worn low across the front of the pelvis, chest and shoulders.
Seat belt restraint system
For maximum restraint system protection, the seat belts must always be used
whenever the vehicle is moving.
- A properly positioned shoulder belt
should be positioned midway over
your shoulder, across your collarbone.
- Never allow children to ride in the
front passenger seat. See "Child
Restraint System (CRS)" on page 3-26
for further discussion.
WARNING
Twisted seat belt
Make sure your seat belt is not twisted
when worn. A twisted seat belt may not
properly protect you in an accident and
could even cut into your body.
WARNING
Shoulder Belt
- Never wear the shoulder belt under
your arm or behind your back. An
improperly positioned shoulder belt
cannot protect the occupant in the
event of a crash.
- Always wear both the shoulder portion and lap portion of the lap/shoulder belt.
WARNING
Damaged seat belt
Any damage in webbing or hardware
may lead to serious injury or death in a
crash. For your safety, replace the entire

Safety features of your vehicle
seat belt assembly when any part of the
webbing or hardware is damaged.
Seat belts are designed to bear upon the
bony structure of the body, and should
be worn low across the front of the pelvis, chest and shoulders, as applicable;
wearing the lap section of the belt across
the abdominal area must be avoided.
Seat belts should be adjusted as firmly
as possible, consistent with comfort, to
provide the protection for which they
have been designed.
A slack belt will greatly reduce the protection afforded to the wearer.
Care should be taken to avoid contamination of the webbing with polishes, oils
and chemicals, and particularly battery
acid. Cleaning may safely be carried out
using mild soap and water. The belt
should be replaced if webbing becomes
frayed, contaminated or damaged.
- No modifications or additions should
be made by the user which would
either prevent the seat belt adjusting
devices from operating to remove
slack, or prevent the seat belt assembly from being adjusted to remove
slack.
- When you fasten the seat belt, be
careful not to latch the seat belt in
buckles of other seats. It is very dangerous and you may not be protected
by the seat belt properly.
- When fastening the seat belt, make
sure that the seat belt does not pass
over objects that are hard or can
break easily.
WARNING
Seat belt buckle
Do not allow foreign material (gum,
crumbs, coins, liquids, etc.) to obstruct
Seat belts
the seat belt buckle. This may prevent
the seat belt from fastening securely.
WARNING
Do not unfasten the seat belt and do not
fasten and unfasten the seat belt repeatedly while driving. This could result in
loss of control, and an accident causing
death, serious injury, or property damage.
Driver's seat belt warning
As a reminder to the driver, the driver's
seat belt warning lights will appear for
approximately 6 seconds each time you
turn the ENGINE START/STOP button
ON regardless of belt fastening. If the
seatbelt is not fastened, the warning
chime will sound for about 6 seconds.
If you start to drive without the seat belt
fastened over 5 mph (9 km/h) and less
than 12 mph (20 km/h), the corresponding warning light will appear. The warning light will turn off when the vehicle
speed drops below 5 mph (9 km/h).
If you start to drive without the seat belt
fastened or you unfasten the seat belt
when you drive 12 mph (20 km/h) and
faster, the warning light will blink and
warning chime will sound for approximately 100 seconds. When the seat belt
is unfastened during driving, the warning light will appear when the speed is
under 12 mph (20 km/h). When the
speed is 12 mph (20 km/h) and faster,
the warning light will blink and warning

Safety features of your vehicle chime will sound for approximately 100
seconds.
Front passenger's seat belt warning
As a reminder to the front passenger,
the front passenger's seat belt warning
lights will appear for approximately 6
seconds each time you turn the ENGINE
START/STOP button ON regardless of
belt fastening. If you start to drive without the passenger seat belt fastened
when you drive over 5 mph (9 km/h) and
less than 12 mph (20 km/h), the corresponding warning light will appear. The
warning light will turn off when the vehicle speed drops below 5 mph (9 km/h).
If you start to drive without the passenger seat belt fastened or you unfasten
the seat belt when you drive 12 mph (20
km/h) and faster, the warning light will
blink and warning chime will sound for
approximately 100 seconds. When the
passenger seat belt is unfastened during
driving, the warning light will appear
when the speed is under 12 mph (20 km/
h). When the speed is 12 mph (20 km/h)
and faster, the warning light will blink
and warning chime will sound for
approximately 100 seconds.
NOTICE
- Even if the front passenger seat is not
occupied, the seat belt warning light
will appear for 6 seconds.
Seat belts
- The front passenger's seat belt warning may operate when luggage is
placed on the front passenger seat.
Seat belt - Driver's 3-point system
with emergency locking retractor
The following explains how to fasten and
adjust the driver's seat belt.
Fastening the your seat belt:
- Pull it out of the retractor and insert
the metal tab (1) into the buckle (2).
There will be an audible "click" when
the tab locks into the buckle.
WARNING
You should place the lap belt portion as
low as possible and snugly across your
hips. If the lap belt is located too high on
your waist, it may increase the chance of
injury in the event of a collision.
The arm closest to the seat belt buckle
should be over the belt while the other
arm should be under the belt as shown
in the illustration. Never wear the seat
belt under the arm closest to the door.
The seat belt automatically adjusts to
the proper length only after the lap belt
portion is adjusted manually so that it

Safety features of your vehicle
fits snugly around your hips. If you lean
forward in a slow, easy motion, the belt
will extend and let you move around. If
there is a sudden stop or impact, however, the belt will lock into position. It will
also lock if you try to lean forward too
quickly.
NOTICE
If you are not able to pull out the seat
belt from the retractor, firmly pull the
belt out and release it. Then you will be
able to pull the belt out smoothly.
Adjusting the height of shoulder
belt
You can adjust the height of the shoulder belt anchor to one of the 4 positions
for maximum comfort and safety.
The height of the adjusting seat belt
should not be too close to your neck.
The shoulder portion should be adjusted
so that it lies across your chest and midway over your shoulder near the door
and not your neck.
To adjust the height of the seat belt
anchor, lower or raise the height
adjuster into an appropriate position.
- To raise the height adjuster, pull it up
(1).
- To lower it, push it down (3) while
pressing the height adjuster button
(2).
Release the button to lock the anchor
into position. Try sliding the height
Seat belts
adjuster to make sure that it has locked
into position.
Improperly positioned seat belts can
cause serious injuries in an accident.
WARNING
Shoulder belt positioning
Verify the shoulder belt anchor is locked
into position at the appropriate height.
Never position the shoulder belt across
your neck or face. Improperly positioned
seat belts can cause serious injuries in
an accident.
WARNING
Seat belt replacement
After a collision, the seat belt system
should be inspected to ensure it is operating normally. Replace any belts that
are not functioning appropriately.
Seat belts - Front passenger and
rear seat 3-point system with
combination locking retractor
The following explains how to fasten the
passenger's and rear seat belts.
Fastening your seat belt:
Combination retractor type seat belts
are installed in the rear seat positions to
help accommodate the installation of
Child Restraint System. Although a combination retractor is also installed in the
front passenger seat position, it is
strongly recommended that children
always be seated in the rear seat. NEVER
place any infant restraint system in the
front seat of the vehicle.
This type of seat belt combines the features of both an emergency locking
retractor seat belt and an automatic
locking retractor seat belts.

Safety features of your vehicle - Pull it out of the retractor and insert
the metal tab into the buckle. There
will be an audible "click" when the tab
locks into the buckle. When not securing a child restraint, the seat belt
operates in the same way as the
driver's seat belt (emergency locking
retractor type).
It automatically adjusts to the proper
length only after the lap belt portion of
the seat belt is adjusted manually so that
it fits snugly around your hips.
When the seat belt is fuly extended
from the retractor to allow the installation of a Child Restraint System, the seat
belt operation changes to allow the belt
to retract, but not to extend (automatic
locking retractor type). Refer to "Securing a child restraint with a lap/shoulder
belt" on page 3-32.
NOTICE
Although the combination retractor provides the same level of protection for
seated passengers in either emergency
or automatic locking modes, have the
seated passengers use the emergency
locking feature for improved convenience. The automatic locking function is
intended to facilitate child restraint
installation. To convert from the automatic locking feature to the emergency
locking operation mode, allow the
unbuckled seat belt to fuly retract.
CAUTION
Do NOT fold down the left portion of the
rear seatback when the rear center seat
belt is buckled. ALWAYS UNBUCKLE the
rear center seat belt before folding down
the left portion of the rear seatback. If
the rear center seat belt is buckled when
the left portion of the rear seatback is
folded down, distortion and damage to
Seat belts
the top portion of the seatback and seat
belt garnish may result, causing the
seatback to lock into the folded down
position.
The seat belt should be locked into the
buckle on each seat cushion to be properly fastened.
1. Rear right seat belt fastening buckle
2.Rear center seat belt fastening buckle
3.Rear left seat belt fastening buckle
WARNING
Prior to fastening the rear seat belts,
ensure the latch matches the seat belt
buckle. Forcefuly fastening the left or
right seat belt to the center buckle can
result in an improper fastening scenario
that will not protect you in an accident.
When using the rear center seat belt, the
buckle with the "CENTER" mark must be
used.

Safety featur...
