--- Page 1 ---
IsunsM aenwo

Owner's Manual
Movement that inspires
Sportage

--- Page 2 ---
2a noitizoqo 9

vehicle."
A WARNING - California
"Operating, servicing and maintaining
a passenger vehicle or off-road
vehicle can expose you to chemicals
including engine exhaust, carbon
monoxide, phthalates, and lead, which
are known to the State of California
to cause cancer and birth defects or
other reproductive harm. To minimize
exposure, avoid breathing exhaust, do
not idle the engine except as necessary,
service your vehicle in a well-ventilated
area and wear gloves or wash your
hands frequently when servicing your
vehicle. For more information go to
www.P65Warnings.ca.gov/passenger-
Proposition 65

--- Page 3 ---
FOREWORD
Dear Customer,
Thank you for selecting your new Kia vehicle.
As a global car manufacturer focused on building high-quality vehicles with exceptional value, Kia is dedicated to providing you with a customer service experience that
exceeds your expectations.
This Owner's Manual is valid for all variants of your model, and describes all options,
features, and equipment available, along with the maintenance needs. Therefore, this
manual may also describe optional equipment not purchased on your vehicle, country
specifications, and functions and features not available in your region. Please always
keep this manual in the vehicle for your and any subsequent owner's reference.
Authorized Kia Dealerships provide factory-trained technicians, utilized recommended special service tools, and supply genuine Kia replacement parts to help you
maintain and service your vehicle during your ownership.All information contained in this Owner's Manual was accurate at the time of publication. However, as Kia continues to make improvements to its products, the company
reserves the right to make changes to this manual or any of its vehicles at any time
without notice and without incurring any obligations.
Please drive safely, and enjoy your Kia vehicle!
© 2023 Kia America, Inc.All rights reserved. May not be reproduced or translated in whole or in part without the written consent of Kia
America, Inc.
Printed in Korea

--- Page 4 ---
How to use this manual
We want to help you get the greatest
possible driving experience from your
vehicle. Your Owner's Manual can assist
you in many ways.
We strongly recommend that you read
the entire manual. In order to minimize
the chance of death or injury, you must
read the WARNING and CAUTION sections in the manual.
illustrations complement the words in
this manual to best explain how to enjoy
your vehicle. By reading your manual,
you learn about features, important
safety information, and driving tips
under various road conditions.
The general layout of the manual is provided in the Table of Contents. Use the
index when looking for a specific area or
subject, it has an alphabetical listing of
all information in your manual.
Chapters: This manual has nine chapters
plus an index. Each chapter begins with
a brief list of contents so you can tell at a
glance if that chapter has the information you want.
You will find various WARNINGS, CAU-
TIONS, and NOTICES in this manual.
These WARNINGS were prepared to
enhance your personal safety. You
should carefuly read and follow ALL
procedures and recommendations provided in these WARNINGS, CAUTIONS
and NOTICES.
CAUTION
A CAUTION indicates a situation in
which damage to your vehicle could
result if the caution is ignored.
NOTICE
A NOTICE indicates interesting or helpful
information is being provided.
WARNING
A WARNING indicates a situation in
which harm, serious bodily injury or
death could result if the warning is
ignored.

--- Page 5 ---
roitsubortal

Table of Contents
Specifications, Consumer information and Reporting safety defects 9
Your vehicle at a glance 3
Safety features of your vehicle 3
Features of your vehicle 4
Driving your vehicle 5
Driver assistance system 6
What to do in an emergency O
Introduction O
Maintenance B
Abbreviation A
Index O

--- Page 6 ---
noitoubortal

Introduction
Fuel requirements
Vehicle modifications
Vehicle break-in proces.* •••I•
Risk of burns when parking or stopping vehicle
• Vehicle handling instructions
• Open Source Software Notice
Vehicle data collection and Event Data Recorders
..1-2
1-4
.. 1-5
..1-5
1-6
1-6

--- Page 7 ---
Introduction
Introduction
Fuel requirements
Your new vehicle is designed to use only
unleaded fuel having a pump octane
number ((R+M)/2) of 87 (Research
Octane Number 91) or higher. (Do not
use methanol blended fuels.)
Your new vehicle is designed to obtain
maximum performance with UNLEADED
FUEL, as well as minimize exhaust emissions and spark plug fouling.
Never add any fuel system cleaning
agents to the fuel tank other than what
has been specified. (Consult an authorized Kia dealer for details.)
- Tighten the cap until it clicks one time,
otherwise the Check Engine light will
appear.
WARNING
Refueling
- Do not "top off" after the nozzle automatically shuts off. Attempts to force
more fuel into the tank can cause fuel
overflow onto you and the ground,
causing a risk of fire.
- Always check that the fuel cap is
installed securely to prevent fuel spillage, especially in the event of an accident.
Fuel requirements
Gasoline containing alcohol and
methanol
Gasohol, a mixture of gasoline and ethanol (also known as grain alcohol), and
gasoline or gasohol containing methanol
(also known as wood alcohol) are being
marketed along with or instead of
leaded or unleaded gasoline.
Pursuant to Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) regulations, ethanol may
be used in your vehicle.
Do not use gasohol containing more
than 15% ethanol, and do not use gasoline or gasohol containing any methanol.
Ethanol provides less energy than gasoline and attracts water. Thus, it is likely to
reduce your fuel efficiency and could
lower your MPG results.
Methanol may cause drivability problems and damage to the fuel system,
engine control system and emission
control system.
Discontinue using gasohol of any kind if
drivability problems occur.
Vehicle damage or drivability problems
may not be covered by the manufacturer's warranty if they result from the
use of:
1. Gasoline or gasohol containing methanol.
2.Leaded fuel or leaded gasohol.
3.Gasohol containing more than 15%
ethanol.
"E85" fuel is an alternative fuel comprised of 85% ethanol and 15% gasoline,
and is manufactured exclusively for use
in Flexible Fuel Vehicles. "E85" is not
compatible with your vehicle. Use of
"E85" may result in poor engine performance and damage to your vehicle's
engine and fuel system. Kia recommends that customers do not use fuel
with an ethanol content exceeding 15%.

--- Page 8 ---
Introduction NOTICE
Your New Vehicle Limited Warranty
does not cover damage to the fuel system or any performance problems
caused by the use of "E85" fuel.
NOTICE
Never use any fuel containing methanol.
Discontinue use of any methanol containing products which may inhibit
proper drivability.
Other fuels
Using fuels that contain Silicone (Si),
MMT (Methylcyclopentadienyl Manganese Tricarbonyl), Manganese (Mn) contained fuel, and other metallic additives,
may cause vehicle and engine damage
or cause misfiring, poor acceleration,
engine stalling, catalyst melting, clogging, abnormal corrosion, life cycle
reduction, etc.
Also, the Malfunction Indicator Lamp
(MIL) may appear.
NOTICE
Damage to the fuel system or performance problems caused by the use of
these other fuels may not be covered by
your New Vehicle Limited Warranty.
Gasoline containing MMT
Some gasoline contains harmful manganese- based fuel additives Such as MMT
(Methylcyclopentadienyl Manganese Tricarbonyl). Kia does not recommend the
use of gasoline containing MMT. This
type of fuel can reduce vehicle performance and affect your emission control
Fuel requirements
system. The Malfunction Indicator Lamp
(MIL) on the cluster may come on.
Do not use methanol
Fuels containing methanol (wood alcohol) should not be used in your vehicle.
This type of fuel can reduce vehicle performance and damage components of
the fuel system, engine control system
and emission control system.
Fuel Additives
Kia recommends that you use good
quality gasolines treated with detergent
additives such as TOP TIER Detergent
Gasoline, which help prevent deposit
formation in the engine. These gasolines
will help the engine run cleaner and
enhance performance of the emission
control system.
For more information on TOP TIER
Detergent Gasoline, please go to the
website (www.toptiergas.com) For customers who do not use TOP TIER Detergent Gasoline regularly, and have
problems starting or the engine does not
run smoothly, additives that you can buy
separately may be added to the gasoline.
If TOP TIER Detergent Gasoline is not
available, one bottle of additive should
be added to the fuel tank at every 8,000
miles (13,000 km) or every engine oil
change is recommended. Additives are
available from your authorized Kia
dealer along with information on how to
use them. Do not mix other additives.

--- Page 9 ---
Introduction
Vehicle modifications
Operation in foreign countries
If you are going to drive your vehicle in
another country, be sure to:
- Observe all regulations regarding registration and insurance.
- Determine that acceptable fuel is
available.
Vehicle modifications
This vehicle should not be modified.
Modification of your vehicle could affect
its performance, safety or durability and
may even violate governmental safety
and emissions regulations.
NOTICE
Damage or performance problems
resulting from any modification may not
be covered under warranty.
CAUTION
If you use unauthorized electronic
devices, it may cause the vehicle to
operate abnormally, wire damage, battery discharge and fire. For your safety,
do not use unauthorized electronic
devices.

--- Page 10 ---
Introduction Vehicle break-in process
By following a few simple precautions
for the first 600 miles (1,000 km) you
may add to the performance, economy
and life of your vehicle.
- Do not race the engine.
- While driving, keep your engine speed
(rpm, or revolutions per minute)
between 2,000 rpm and 4,000 rpm.
- Do not maintain a single engine speed
for long periods of time, either fast or
slow. Varying engine speeds is
needed to properly break-in the
engine.
- Avoid hard stops, except in emergencies, to allow the brakes to seat properly.
- Don't tow a trailer during the first
1,200 miles (2,000 km) of operation.
- Fuel economy and engine performance may vary depending on vehicle break-in process and be stabilized
after 4,000 miles (6,000 km). New
engines may consume more oil during
the vehicle break-in period.
Vehicle break-in process
Risk of burns when parking or
stopping vehicle
- Do not park or stop the vehicle near
flammable items such as leaves,
paper, oil, and tire. Such items placed
near the exhaust system can become
a fire hazard.
- When an engine idles at a high speed
with the rear side of the vehicle touching the wall, heat of the exhaust gas
can cause discoloration or fire. Keep
enough space between the rear part
of the vehicle and the wall.
- Be sure not to touch the exhaust/catalytic systems while engine is running
or right after the engine is turned off.
There is a risk of burns since the systems are extremely hot.
Vehicle handling instructions
As with other vehicles of this type, failure
to operate this vehicle correctly may
result in loss of control, an accident or
vehicle rollover.
Specific design characteristics (higher
ground clearance, track, etc.) give this
vehicle a higher center of gravity than
other types of vehicles. In other words
they are not designed for cornering at
the same speeds as conventional 2-
wheel drive vehicles.
Avoid sharp turns or abrupt maneuvers.
Again, failure to operate this vehicle correctly may result in loss of control, an
accident or vehicle rollover.
Be sure to read the "Reducing the risk
of a rollover" on page 5-54.

--- Page 11 ---
Introduction
Vehicle data collection and Event Data Recorders
Open Source Software Notice
This vehicle contains software with open
source licenses.
Open source software information
including the source code, copyright
notices and referred license terms may
be obtained on the website
http://worldwide.kia.com/int/opensource
Kia Corporation will provide the open
source code to you in storage medium
such as CD-ROM for minimum charge
covering the cost of performing source
distribution upon email request to
opensource@kia.com
within a period of 3 years from the date
of product purchase.
Vehicle data collection and
Event Data Recorders
This vehicle is equipped with
an Event Data Recorder (EDR).
The main purpose of an EDR is
to record, in certain crash or
near crash-like situations, such
as an air bag deployment or
hitting a road obstacle, data
that will assist in understanding how a vehicle's systems
performed. The EDR is
designed to record data
related to vehicle dynamics
and safety systems for a short
period of time, typically 30 seconds or less. The EDR in this
vehicle is designed to record
such data as:
- How various systems in your
vehicle were operating;
- Whether or not the driver
and passenger safety belts
were buckled/fastened;
- How far (if at all) the driver
was depressing the accelerator and/or brake pedal; and,
- How fast the vehicle was
traveling.
These data can help provide a
better understanding of the
circumstances in which crashes
and injuries occur. NOTE: EDR
data are recorded by your
vehicle only if a non-trivial
crash situation occurs; no data
are recorded by the EDR under

--- Page 12 ---
Introduction Vehicle data collection and Event Data Recorders
normal driving conditions and
no personal data (e.g., name,
gender, age, and crash location) are recorded. However,
other parties, such as law
enforcement, could combine
the EDR data with the type of
personally identifying data
routinely acquired during a
crash investigation.
To read data recorded by an
EDR, special equipment is
required, and access to the
vehicle or the EDR is needed. In
addition to the vehicle manufacturer, other parties, such as
law enforcement, that have the
special equipment, can read
the information if they have
access to the vehicle or the
EDR.

--- Page 13 ---
8-S

Your vehicle at a glance 2
Exterior overview ..
Interior overview ..
Instrument panel overview
Engine compartmen • 2-8
..2-2
2-4
..2-6
• 2-8

--- Page 14 ---
12-8 ,Ee-A

Your vehicle at a glance
Your vehicle at a glance
Exterior overview
Front view
1. Hood
2. Head lamp
3. Wheel and tire
4. Outside rear view mirror
5. Panoramic sunroot
6. Front windshield wiper blades
7. Windows
8. Front ultrasonic sensor
9. Front radar
10.Front view camera
11. Front fog lamp
Exterior overview

--- Page 15 ---
A2-8,Pe-D

Your vehicle at a glance Exterior overview
12.Roof rack
13.Wide-front view camera
Rear view
1. Doors
2. Fuel filler door
3. Rear combination lamp
4. High mounted stop lamp
5. Liftgate
6. Antenna
7. Wide-rear view camera
8. Rear ultrasonic sensor
9. Rear wiper
10.Backup lamp
Exterior overview
00)

--- Page 16 ---
ИсООГОгОИО

Your vehicle at a glance Interior overview
Interior overview
1. Inside door handle
2. Seat position memory system
3. Outside rearview mirror control switch
4. Central door lock/unlock switch
5. Power window switches (Front)
6. Power window switches (Rear)
7. Power window lock button
8. Steering wheel tilt/telescopic lever
9. Steering wheel
10.Adjusting instrument cluster illumination
11. ESC OFF button
12.EPB switch
13. Power liftgate open/close button

--- Page 17 ---
plsnos s et vsdils Your

Your vehicle at a glance Interior overview
14.Hood release lever
15.Instrument panel fuse
16.Seat
17.Shift lever
18. Brake pedal

--- Page 18 ---
woiviovo lonsq tnsmuttenl

Your vehicle at a glance Instrument panel overview
Instrument panel overview
1. Audio remote control button
2. Driver's front air bag
3. Horn
4. Driving Assist button 6-58, 6-60
5. Instrument cluster
6. Light control/turn signals lever
7. Wiper and washer control lever
8. Infotainment system
9. Hazard warning flasher switch
10. Climate control system
Infotainment/climate switchable controller
11. ENGINE START/STOP button
12.Front seat warmer and air ventilation seat button

--- Page 19 ---
sonslp sts slidsv 1uoY

Your vehicle at a glance Instrument panel overview
13. Heated steering wheel button
14.Downhill Brake Control (DBC) button
15.AUTO HOLD button
16.ISG system Off button
17.Parking Safety button
18. Parking/View button
19.Drive mode integrated control system
20.Wireless smartphone charging system
21.Center console storage box
22.Passenger's front air bag
23. Glove box
5-50 2

--- Page 20 ---
ido a.so msortetism2

Table: ido a.so msortetism2

[Row Contents]
Row 0: T1-8
Row 1: 0S-8
Row 2: SS-8
Row 3: 21-8
Row 4: al-8
Row 5: 1S-8
Row 6: as-8, a-r
Row 7: as-8, a-r
Row 8: 8-AS

[Table Data]
| T1-8 | |
| 0S-8 | |
| SS-8 | |
| 21-8 | |
| al-8 | |
| 1S-8 | |
| as-8, a-r | |
| as-8, a-r | |
| 8-AS | |

Your vehicle at a glance Engine compartment
Engine compartment
Smartstream G2.5 GDi
1. Engine coolant reservoir
2. Brake fluid reservoir
3. Air cleaner
4. Engine oil tiller cap
5. Engine oil dipstick
6. Windshield washer fluid reservoir
7. Positive battery terminal 7-5, 8-26
8. Negative battery terminal 7-5,8-26
9. Fuse box

--- Page 21 ---
Safety features of your vehicle
Safety features of your vehicle
Important safety precautions 3-3
Seat 3-5
- Feature of Seat Leather 3-7
- Infotainment system 3-8
- Front seat adjustment for manual seat 3-8
- Front seat adjustment for power seat 3-9
- Headrest for front seat 3-11
- Seatback pocket (if equipped) 3-13
- Headrest for rear seat 3-13
- Armrest 3-14
- Folding the rear seat 3-14
Seat belts 3-17
- Seat belt restraint system 3-17
- Driver's seat belt warning 3-18
- Front passenger's seat belt warning 3-19
- Seat belt - Driver's 3-point system with emergency locking
retractor 3-19
- Seat belts - Front passenger and rear seat 3-point system with
combination locking retractor 3-20
- Pre-tensioner seat belt 3-22
- Seat belt precautions 3-24
- Care of seat belts 3-25
Child Restraint System (CRS) 3-26
- Children always in the rear 3-26
- Selecting a CRS 3-27
- installing a CRS 3-29
Air bag - advanced Supplemental Restraint System 3-34
- How does the air bag system operate? 3-35
- Do not install a child restraint on the front passenger's seat 3-36
- Air bag warning light 3-36

--- Page 22 ---
3 Safety features of your vehicle
- Supplemental Restraint System (SRS) components and
functions 3-37
- Occupant Detection System (ODS) 3-39
- Driver's and passenger's front air bag 3-43
- Side air bag 3-45
- Curtain air bag 3-47
- Air bag collision sensors 3-48
- Why didn't my air bag go off in a collision? (Inflation and noninflation conditions of the air bag) 3-49
- Supplemental Restraint System (SRS) care 3-51
- Additional safety precautions 3-52
- Adding equipment to or modifying your air bag-equipped
vehicle 3-53
- Air bag warning labels 3-53

--- Page 23 ---
Safety features of your vehicle Safety features of your
vehicle
For the safety of the driver and vehicle
passengers, you should become familiar
with the vehicle's safety features.
Important safety precautions
You will find many safety precautions
and recommendations throughout this
section, and throughout this manual.
The safety precautions in this section are
among the most important.
Always wear your seat belt
A seat belt is your best protection in al
types of accidents. Air bags are
designed to supplement seat belts, not
replace them. So even though your vehicle is equipped with air bags, ALWAYS
fasten your seat belt and make sure al
of your passengers have properly fastened their seat belts or restraints before
placing vehicle in motion.
Restrain all childrenAll children under age 13 should ride in
your vehicle properly restrained in a rear
seat, not the front seat. Infants and small
children should be restrained in an
appropriate child restraint. Larger children should use a booster seat with the
lap/shoulder belt until they can use the
seat belt properly without a booster seat.
Air bag hazards
While air bags can save lives, they can
also cause serious or fatal injuries to
occupants who sit too close to them, or
who are not properly restrained. Infants,
young children, and shorter adults are at
the greatest risk of being injured by an
Important safety precautions
inflating air bag. follow all instructions
and warnings in this manual.
Driver distraction
Driver distraction presents a serious and
potentially deadly danger, especially for
inexperienced drivers. Safety should be
the first concern when behind the wheel
and drivers need to be aware of the wide
array of potential distractions, such as
drowsiness, reaching for objects, eating,
personal grooming, other passengers,
and using celular phones.
Drivers can become distracted when
they take their eyes and attention off the
road or their hands off the wheel to
focus on activities other than driving. To
reduce your risk of distraction or getting
into an accident:
- ALWAYS set up your mobile devices
(i.e., MP3 players, phones, navigation
units, etc.) when your vehicle is
parked or safely stopped.
- ONLY use your mobile device when
allowed by laws and when conditions
permit safe use. NEVER text or email
while driving. Most states have laws
prohibiting drivers from texting. Some
states and cities also prohibit drivers
from using handheld phones.
- NEVER let the use of a mobile device
distract you from driving. You have a
responsibility to your passengers and
others on the road to always drive
safely, with your hands on the wheel
as well as your eyes and attention on
the road.

--- Page 24 ---
.botzoa

posted.
tion
Safety features of your vehicle
Control your speed
Excessive speed is a major factor in
crash injuries and deaths. Generally, the
higher the speed, the greater the risk,
but serious injuries can also occur at
lower speeds. Never drive faster than is
safe for current driving conditions,
regardless of the maximum speed
Keep your vehicle in safe condi-
Having a tire blowout or a mechanical
failure can be extremely hazardous. To
reduce the possibility of such problems,
check your tire pressures and conditions
frequently, and perform all regularly
scheduled maintenance.
Important safety precautions

--- Page 25 ---
ООГЕЛАЗОИО

Safety features of your vehicle
Seat
Front seat
1. Sliding: Forward and Backward
2. Reclining: Back angle
3. Seat cushion height
4. Seat cushion tilt
5. Lumbar support*
6. Driver position memory system*
7. Headrest
Rear seat
8. Seat back angle/folding
9. Armrest
10.Headrest
11. Seatback folding*
*: if equipped
ONQ5
Seat

--- Page 26 ---
Safety features of your vehicle
WARNING
Loose objects
Loose objects in the driver's foot area
could interfere with the operation of the
foot pedals, possibly causing an accident. Do not place anything under the
front seats.
WARNING
Uprighting seat
Do not press the release lever on a manual seatback without holding and controlling the seatback. The seatback will
spring upright, possibly striking you or
other passengers.
WARNING
Driver responsibility for passengers
The driver must advise the passengers
to keep the seatback in an upright position whenever the vehicle is in motion. If
a seat is reclined during an accident, the
restraint system's ability to restrain the
passenger will be greatly reduced.
WARNING
Seat cushion
Occupants should never sit on aftermarket seat cushions or sitting cushions. The
passenger Occupant Detection System
may not operate properly, or the passenger's hips may slide under the lap
Seat
portion of the seat belt during an accident or a sudden stop.
WARNING
Driver's seat
- Never attempt to adjust the seat while
the vehicle is moving. This could result
in loss of control of your vehicle.
- Do not allow anything to interfere with
the normal position of the seatback.
For example, storing items against the
seatback could overload the seat back
in a sudden stop or collision resulting
in serious or fatal injury.
- Sit as far back as possible from the
steering wheel while still maintaining
comfortable control of the your vehicle. A distance of at least 10 in (25 cm)
from your chest to the steering wheel
is recommended. Failure to do so can
result in air bag inflation injuries to the
driver.
WARNING
Rear seatbacks
Always lock the rear seatback before
driving. Failure to do so could result in
passengers or objects being thrown forward, injuring vehicle occupants.
WARNING
Unexpected Seat Movement
After adjusting a manual seat, always
check that it is locked by shifting your
weight to the front and to the back. Sudden or unexpected movement of the
driver's seat could cause you to lose
control of the vehicle.

--- Page 27 ---
Safety features of your vehicle WARNING
Seat adjustment
- Do not adjust the seat while wearing
seat belts. Moving the seat forward
will cause strong pressure on the
abdomen.
- Do not place your hand near the seat
bottom or seat track while adjusting
the seat. Your hand could get caught
in the seat mechanism.
WARNING
Luggage and Cargo
Do not stack or pile luggage or cargo
higher than the seatback in the cargo
area. In an accident the cargo could
strike and injure a passenger. If objects
are large, heavy or must be piled, they
must be secured in the cargo area.
WARNING
Cargo Area
Do not allow passengers to ride in the
cargo area under any circumstance. The
cargo area is solely for the purpose of
transporting luggage or cargo.
WARNING
Small Objects
Use extreme caution when picking up
small objects trapped under the seats or
between the seat and the center console. Your hands might be cut or injured
by the sharp edges of the seats mechanism.
Seat
Feature of Seat Leather
- Our car seats are upholstered with a
combination of artificial and genuine
leather. The genuine leather is made
from the outer skin of an animal,
which goes through a special process
to be available for use. Since it is a
natural substance, each part differs in
thickness or density. Also, wrinkles
could appear depending on the temperature and humidity.
- The seat cover is made of stretchable
material to improve comfort of passengers.
- The parts contacting the body are
curved and the side supporting area is
high which provides driving comfort
and stability.
CAUTION
- Belts with metallic accessories, zippers or keys inside the back pocket
may damage the seat fabric.
- Make sure not to wet the seat. It may
change the nature of leather.
- Jeans or clothes which could bleach
may contaminate the surface of the
seat covering fabric.
NOTICE
Wrinkles or abrasions may appear naturally from usage. It is not a fault of product. Wrinkles or abrasions are not
covered by warranty.

--- Page 28 ---
Safety features of your vehicle
Infotainment system
Select Setting → Vehicle → Seat from
the Settings menu in the infotainment
system screen, you may use various
convenience functions.
- Seat position change alert: When the
seat position changes, details of the
change are shown with a seat image.
- Seat Easy Access
- Steering easy access: Moves the
steering wheel when the driver
enters or leaves the vehicle.
- Seat Slide Easy Access (fwd/awd)
access (Normal/Extended/Off)
the seat automatically moves when
the driver enters or leaves the vehicle may be selected.
The information provided may differ
according to which functions are applicable to your vehicle.
INFORMATION
The infotainment system may change
after software updates. For more information, refer to the user`s manual provided in the infotainment system and
the quick reference guide.
Seat
Front seat adjustment for manual seat
The front seat can be adjusted by using
the control levers located on the outside
of the seat cushion.
Moving forward and backward
Adjust the seat before driving, and make
sure the seat is locked securely by trying
to move forward and backward without
using the lever. If the seat moves, it is
not locked properly.
To move the seat forward or backward:
1. Pull the seat slide adjustment lever up
and hold it.
2.Slide the seat to the position you
desire.
3.Release the lever and make sure the
seat is locked in place.

--- Page 29 ---
Safety features of your vehicle Reclining seatback
To recline the seatback:
1. Lean forward slightly and lift up the
seatback recline lever.
2.Carefuly lean back on the seat and
adjust the seatback of the seat to the
position you desire.
3.Release the lever and make sure the
seatback is locked in place. (The lever
MUST return to its original position for
the seatback to lock.)
WARNING
Reclining seatback
Sitting in a reclined position when the
vehicle is in motion can be dangerous.
Even when buckled up, the protections
of your restraint system (seat belts and/
or air bags) are greatly reduced by
reclining your seatback.
Seat belts must be snug against your
hips and chest to work properly. When
the seatback is reclined, the shoulder
belt cannot do its job because it will not
be snug against your chest. Instead, it
will be in front of you. During an accident, you could be thrown into the seat
belt, causing neck or other injuries.
The more the seatback is reclined, the
greater chance the passenger's hips will
slide under the lap belt or the passen-
Seat
ger's neck will strike or become entangled in the shoulder belt.
Changing seat cushion height (if
equipped)
To change the height of the seat cushion, push the lever upwards or downwards.
- To lower the seat cushion, push down
the lever several times.
- To raise the seat cushion, pull up the
lever several times.
Front seat adjustment for power
seat (if equipped)
The front seat can be adjusted by using
the control switches located on the outside of the seat cushion.
Before driving, adjust the seat to the
proper position so you can easily control
the steering wheel, pedals and switches
on the instrument panel.
CAUTION
Power seating adjustments
- The power seating controls function
by electronic motor. Excessive operation may cause damage to the electrical equipment.
- Do not operate two or more power
seat control switches at the same

--- Page 30 ---
Safety features of your vehicle
time. Doing so may damage the
power seat motor or electrical components.
Moving forward and backward
To move the seat forward or backward:
1. Push the control switch forward or
backward to move the seat to the
desired position.
2.Release the switch once the seat
reaches the desired position.
Reclining seatback
To recline the seatback:
1. Push the control switch forward or
backward to move the seatback to the
desired angle
Seat
2.Release the switch once the seat
reaches the desired position.
Changing seat cushion tilt and
height
To change the height of the seat:
- Pull the front portion (1) of the control
switch up to raise or press down to
lower the front part of the seat cushion.
- Pull the rear portion (2) of the control
switch up to raise or press down to
lower the back part of the seat cushion.
- Release the switch once the seat
reaches the desired position.

--- Page 31 ---
Safety features of your vehicle Adjusting lumbar support for
driver's seat (if equipped)
The lumbar support can be adjusted by
pressing the lumbar support switch on
the side of the seat.
1. Press the front portion (1) of the
switch to increase support, or the rear
portion (2) of the switch, to decrease
support.
2.Release the switch once it reaches the
desired position.
Headrest for front seat
The driver's and front passenger's seats
are equipped with a headrest for the
occupant's safety and comfort.
The headrest not only provides comfort
for the driver and front passenger, but
also helps protect the head and neck in
the event of a collision.
For maximum effectiveness in case of
an accident, the headrest should be
adjusted so the middle of the headrest is
as high as the center of gravity of an
Seat
occupant's head. Generally, the center of
gravity of most people's head is similar
with the height of the top of their eyes.
Also, adjust the headrest as close to your
head as possible. For this reason, the use
of a cushion that holds the body away
from the seatback is not recommended.
WARNING
Headrest removal/adjustment
- Do not operate the vehicle with the
headrests removed. Headrests can
provide critical neck and head support in a crash. Operating the vehicle
without the headrest in position could
lead to serious injury or death.
- Do not adjust the headrest height
while the vehicle is in motion. Driver
may lose control of the vehicle.
CAUTION
Excessive pulling or pushing may damage the headrest.
Adjusting the height up and
down
To raise the headrest:
- Pull it up to the desired position (1).
- To lower the headrest, push and hold
the release button (2) on the headrest
support.
- Lower the headrest to the desired
position (3).

--- Page 32 ---
9lbirlov yuoy to esnuts9t ytsts2

Safety features of your vehicle
* NOTICE
It you recline the seatback towards the
front with the headrest and seat cushion
raised, the headrest may come in contact with the sun visor or other parts of
the vehicle.
Removing headrest
Type A
Type B
To remove the headrest:
Seat
1. Recline the seatback (2) With the
recline lever or switch (1).
2. Raise headrest as far as it can go.
3. Press the headrest release button (3)
while pulling the headrest up (4).
A WARNING
Removing headrest
NEVER allow anyone to ride in a seat
with the headrest removed or reversed.
Headrests can provide critical neck and
head support in a crash.
Reinstalling headrest
Type A
Type B
To reinstall the headrest:

--- Page 33 ---
Safety features of your vehicle 1. Put the headrest poles (2) into the
holes while pressing the release button (1).
2.Recline the seatback (4) with the
recline lever or switch (3).
3.Adjust the headrest to the appropriate
height.
WARNING
Headrest Reinstallation
To reduce the risk of injury to the head
or neck, always make sure the headrest
is locked into position and adjusted
properly after reinstalling.
Seatback pocket (if equipped)
There is a pocket (1) in the front seat
back for storing simple books or atlases,
and USB charger (2) (if equipped) for
rear passengers.
WARNING
Seatback pockets
Do not put heavy or sharp objects in the
seatback pockets. In an accident they
could come loose from the pocket and
injure vehicle occupants.
Seat
Headrest for rear seat
The rear seat is equipped with headrests
in all the seating positions for the occupant's safety and comfort.
The headrest not only provides comfort
for passengers, but also helps protect
the head and neck in the event of a collision.
For maximum effectiveness in case of
an accident, the headrest should be
adjusted so the middle of the headrest is
level with the seat occupant's eyes.
Also, adjust the headrest as close to your
head as possible. For this reason, the use
of a cushion that holds the body away
from the seatback is not recommended.
Adjusting the height up and
down
- To raise the headrest, pull it up to the
desired position (1).
- To lower the headrest, push and hold
the release button (2) on the headrest

--- Page 34 ---
Safety features of your vehicle
support and lower the headrest to the
desired position (3).
Removal and reinstallation (if
equipped)
- To remove the headrest, raise it as far
as it can go then press the release
button (1) while pulling the headrest
upward (2).
- To reinstall the headrest, put the
headrest poles (3) into the holes while
pressing the release button (1).
Then adjust it to the appropriate height
and ensure that it locks in position.
Armrest (if equipped)
To use the armrest, pull it forward from
the seatback.
Seat
Folding the rear seat
The rear seatbacks may be folded to
facilitate carrying long items or to
increase the luggage capacity of the
vehicle.
WARNING
Folded Seatback
The purpose of the fold-down rear seatbacks is to allow you to carry longer
objects that could not otherwise be
accommodated.
- Never allow a passenger to sit on top
of the folded down seatback while the
car is moving. This is not a proper
seating position since no seat belts
are available for use. This could result
in serious injury or death, for example,
in case of an accident or sudden stop.
WARNING
When folding the seatback, be sure to
hold the seatback or headrest with your
hands.
CAUTION
When folding or unfolding a rear seat,
make sure to lower the seat's headrest
as much as possible and put the front
seat's seatback in the upright position.
If there is any interference when folding
or unfolding the seat, the interfered area
of the seat may be damaged.

--- Page 35 ---
Safety features of your vehicle Folding down the rear seatback
1. Set the front seatback to the upright
position and, if necessary, slide the
front seat forward.
2.Lower the rear headrests to the lowest
position.
WARNING
Objects
Objects carried on the folded down seatback should not extend higher than the
top of the front seatbacks. Otherwise,
cargo may slide forward and cause
injury or damage during sudden stops.
3.When folding the seatback, insert the
rear seat belt buckle in the pocket
between the rear seatback and cushion. Make sure both seat belts do not
interfere with stowed luggage and
cargo. Then, the seat belt webbing
should be placed in the webbing
guide to prevent the seat belt from
being damaged by loaded cargo, etc.
If the seat belt is loose, it may cause
damage or noise. In that case, return
the seatback to the upright position
and put the webbing out from the
guide to realign it.
Seat
4.Pull on the seatback folding lever,
then fold the seat toward the front of
the vehicle. When you return the seatback to its upright position, always be
sure it has locked into position by
pushing on the top of the seatback.
Type A
Type B (if equipped)

--- Page 36 ---
Safety features of your vehicle
Unfolding the rear seat
1. To use the rear seat, lift and pull the
seatback backward while pulling on
the seatback folding lever. Pull the
seatback firmly until it clicks into
place. Make sure the seatback is
locked in place. When you return the
seatback to its upright position,
always be sure it has locked into position by pushing on the top of the seatback.
2.Return the rear seat belt to the proper
position.
3.When the seatback is completely
installed, check the seatback folding
lever again.
4.If you want to tilt the rear seatback a
bit more, while pulling on the seatback folding lever and push the top of
the rear seatback towards the rear.
Then release the lever and make sure
that the rear seat is firmly locked.
WARNING
Uprighting seat
When you return the seatback to its
upright position, hold the seatback and
return it slowly. If the seatback is
returned without holding it, the back of
the seat could spring forward, resulting
in injury caused by being struck by the
seatback.
Seat
WARNING
Rear seatback
When returning the rear seat to the
upright position:
- Be careful not to damage the seat belt
webbing or buckle.
- Do not allow the seat belt webbing or
buckle to become pinched or caught
in the rear seat.
- Ensure the seatback is completely
locked into its upright position by
pushing on the top of the seatback.
Failure to adhere to any of these
instructions could result in serious
injury or death in the event of a crash.
CAUTION
Damaging rear seat belt buckles
When you fold the rear seatback, insert
the buckle between the rear seatback
and cushion. Doing so can prevent the
buckle from being damaged by the rear
seatback.
CAUTION
Rear seat belts
When returning the rear seatbacks to
the upright position, remember to return
the rear shoulder belts to their proper
position.
WARNING
Unless the driver's position is properly
set according to the driver's physical figure, do not fold the rear seat. It may
increase bodily injuries in a sudden stop
or collision.

--- Page 37 ---
Safety features of your vehicle CAUTION
Be careful when loading cargo through
the rear passenger seats to prevent
damage to the vehicle interior.
WARNING
Cargo
Cargo should always be secured to prevent it from being thrown about the
vehicle in a collision and causing injury
to the vehicle occupants. Do not place
objects in the rear seats, since they cannot be properly secured and may hit the
front seat occupants in a collision.
Cargo loading
Make sure the engine is off, the transmission is in P (Park) and the parking
brake is securely applied whenever loading or unloading cargo. Failure to take
these steps may allow the vehicle to
move if the shift lever is inadvertently
moved to another position.
Seat belts
Seat belts
Seat belts are designed to bear upon the
bony structure of the body, and should
be worn low across the front of the pelvis, chest and shoulders.
Seat belt restraint system
For maximum restraint system protection, the seat belts must always be used
whenever the vehicle is moving.
- A properly positioned shoulder belt
should be positioned midway over
your shoulder, across your collarbone.
- Never allow children to ride in the
front passenger seat. See "Child
Restraint System (CRS)" on page 3-26
for further discussion.
WARNING
Twisted seat belt
Make sure your seat belt is not twisted
when worn. A twisted seat belt may not
properly protect you in an accident and
could even cut into your body.
WARNING
Shoulder Belt
- Never wear the shoulder belt under
your arm or behind your back. An
improperly positioned shoulder belt
cannot protect the occupant in the
event of a crash.
- Always wear both the shoulder portion and lap portion of the lap/shoulder belt.
WARNING
Damaged seat belt
Any damage in webbing or hardware
may lead to serious injury or death in a
crash. For your safety, replace the entire

--- Page 38 ---
Safety features of your vehicle
seat belt assembly when any part of the
webbing or hardware is damaged.
Seat belts are designed to bear upon the
bony structure of the body, and should
be worn low across the front of the pelvis, chest and shoulders, as applicable;
wearing the lap section of the belt across
the abdominal area must be avoided.
Seat belts should be adjusted as firmly
as possible, consistent with comfort, to
provide the protection for which they
have been designed.
A slack belt will greatly reduce the protection afforded to the wearer.
Care should be taken to avoid contamination of the webbing with polishes, oils
and chemicals, and particularly battery
acid. Cleaning may safely be carried out
using mild soap and water. The belt
should be replaced if webbing becomes
frayed, contaminated or damaged.
- No modifications or additions should
be made by the user which would
either prevent the seat belt adjusting
devices from operating to remove
slack, or prevent the seat belt assembly from being adjusted to remove
slack.
- When you fasten the seat belt, be
careful not to latch the seat belt in
buckles of other seats. It is very dangerous and you may not be protected
by the seat belt properly.
- When fastening the seat belt, make
sure that the seat belt does not pass
over objects that are hard or can
break easily.
WARNING
Seat belt buckle
Do not allow foreign material (gum,
crumbs, coins, liquids, etc.) to obstruct
Seat belts
the seat belt buckle. This may prevent
the seat belt from fastening securely.
WARNING
Do not unfasten the seat belt and do not
fasten and unfasten the seat belt repeatedly while driving. This could result in
loss of control, and an accident causing
death, serious injury, or property damage.
Driver's seat belt warning
As a reminder to the driver, the driver's
seat belt warning lights will appear for
approximately 6 seconds each time you
turn the ENGINE START/STOP button
ON regardless of belt fastening. If the
seatbelt is not fastened, the warning
chime will sound for about 6 seconds.
If you start to drive without the seat belt
fastened over 5 mph (9 km/h) and less
than 12 mph (20 km/h), the corresponding warning light will appear. The warning light will turn off when the vehicle
speed drops below 5 mph (9 km/h).
If you start to drive without the seat belt
fastened or you unfasten the seat belt
when you drive 12 mph (20 km/h) and
faster, the warning light will blink and
warning chime will sound for approximately 100 seconds. When the seat belt
is unfastened during driving, the warning light will appear when the speed is
under 12 mph (20 km/h). When the
speed is 12 mph (20 km/h) and faster,
the warning light will blink and warning

--- Page 39 ---
Safety features of your vehicle chime will sound for approximately 100
seconds.
Front passenger's seat belt warning
As a reminder to the front passenger,
the front passenger's seat belt warning
lights will appear for approximately 6
seconds each time you turn the ENGINE
START/STOP button ON regardless of
belt fastening. If you start to drive without the passenger seat belt fastened
when you drive over 5 mph (9 km/h) and
less than 12 mph (20 km/h), the corresponding warning light will appear. The
warning light will turn off when the vehicle speed drops below 5 mph (9 km/h).
If you start to drive without the passenger seat belt fastened or you unfasten
the seat belt when you drive 12 mph (20
km/h) and faster, the warning light will
blink and warning chime will sound for
approximately 100 seconds. When the
passenger seat belt is unfastened during
driving, the warning light will appear
when the speed is under 12 mph (20 km/
h). When the speed is 12 mph (20 km/h)
and faster, the warning light will blink
and warning chime will sound for
approximately 100 seconds.
NOTICE
- Even if the front passenger seat is not
occupied, the seat belt warning light
will appear for 6 seconds.
Seat belts
- The front passenger's seat belt warning may operate when luggage is
placed on the front passenger seat.
Seat belt - Driver's 3-point system
with emergency locking retractor
The following explains how to fasten and
adjust the driver's seat belt.
Fastening the your seat belt:
- Pull it out of the retractor and insert
the metal tab (1) into the buckle (2).
There will be an audible "click" when
the tab locks into the buckle.
WARNING
You should place the lap belt portion as
low as possible and snugly across your
hips. If the lap belt is located too high on
your waist, it may increase the chance of
injury in the event of a collision.
The arm closest to the seat belt buckle
should be over the belt while the other
arm should be under the belt as shown
in the illustration. Never wear the seat
belt under the arm closest to the door.
The seat belt automatically adjusts to
the proper length only after the lap belt
portion is adjusted manually so that it

--- Page 40 ---
Safety features of your vehicle
fits snugly around your hips. If you lean
forward in a slow, easy motion, the belt
will extend and let you move around. If
there is a sudden stop or impact, however, the belt will lock into position. It will
also lock if you try to lean forward too
quickly.
NOTICE
If you are not able to pull out the seat
belt from the retractor, firmly pull the
belt out and release it. Then you will be
able to pull the belt out smoothly.
Adjusting the height of shoulder
belt
You can adjust the height of the shoulder belt anchor to one of the 4 positions
for maximum comfort and safety.
The height of the adjusting seat belt
should not be too close to your neck.
The shoulder portion should be adjusted
so that it lies across your chest and midway over your shoulder near the door
and not your neck.
To adjust the height of the seat belt
anchor, lower or raise the height
adjuster into an appropriate position.
- To raise the height adjuster, pull it up
(1).
- To lower it, push it down (3) while
pressing the height adjuster button
(2).
Release the button to lock the anchor
into position. Try sliding the height
Seat belts
adjuster to make sure that it has locked
into position.
Improperly positioned seat belts can
cause serious injuries in an accident.
WARNING
Shoulder belt positioning
Verify the shoulder belt anchor is locked
into position at the appropriate height.
Never position the shoulder belt across
your neck or face. Improperly positioned
seat belts can cause serious injuries in
an accident.
WARNING
Seat belt replacement
After a collision, the seat belt system
should be inspected to ensure it is operating normally. Replace any belts that
are not functioning appropriately.
Seat belts - Front passenger and
rear seat 3-point system with
combination locking retractor
The following explains how to fasten the
passenger's and rear seat belts.
Fastening your seat belt:
Combination retractor type seat belts
are installed in the rear seat positions to
help accommodate the installation of
Child Restraint System. Although a combination retractor is also installed in the
front passenger seat position, it is
strongly recommended that children
always be seated in the rear seat. NEVER
place any infant restraint system in the
front seat of the vehicle.
This type of seat belt combines the features of both an emergency locking
retractor seat belt and an automatic
locking retractor seat belts.

--- Page 41 ---
Safety features of your vehicle - Pull it out of the retractor and insert
the metal tab into the buckle. There
will be an audible "click" when the tab
locks into the buckle. When not securing a child restraint, the seat belt
operates in the same way as the
driver's seat belt (emergency locking
retractor type).
It automatically adjusts to the proper
length only after the lap belt portion of
the seat belt is adjusted manually so that
it fits snugly around your hips.
When the seat belt is fuly extended
from the retractor to allow the installation of a Child Restraint System, the seat
belt operation changes to allow the belt
to retract, but not to extend (automatic
locking retractor type). Refer to "Securing a child restraint with a lap/shoulder
belt" on page 3-32.
NOTICE
Although the combination retractor provides the same level of protection for
seated passengers in either emergency
or automatic locking modes, have the
seated passengers use the emergency
locking feature for improved convenience. The automatic locking function is
intended to facilitate child restraint
installation. To convert from the automatic locking feature to the emergency
locking operation mode, allow the
unbuckled seat belt to fuly retract.
CAUTION
Do NOT fold down the left portion of the
rear seatback when the rear center seat
belt is buckled. ALWAYS UNBUCKLE the
rear center seat belt before folding down
the left portion of the rear seatback. If
the rear center seat belt is buckled when
the left portion of the rear seatback is
folded down, distortion and damage to
Seat belts
the top portion of the seatback and seat
belt garnish may result, causing the
seatback to lock into the folded down
position.
The seat belt should be locked into the
buckle on each seat cushion to be properly fastened.
1. Rear right seat belt fastening buckle
2.Rear center seat belt fastening buckle
3.Rear left seat belt fastening buckle
WARNING
Prior to fastening the rear seat belts,
ensure the latch matches the seat belt
buckle. Forcefuly fastening the left or
right seat belt to the center buckle can
result in an improper fastening scenario
that will not protect you in an accident.
When using the rear center seat belt, the
buckle with the "CENTER" mark must be
used.

--- Page 42 ---
Safety features of your vehicle
Stowing the rear seat belt
The rear seat belt buckles can be stowed
in the pocket between the rear seatback
and cushion when not in use.
1. Route the seat belt webbing through
the rear seat belt guides. It will help
keep the belts from being trapped
behind or under the seats.
2.After inserting the seat belt, tighten
the belt webbing by pulling it up.
CAUTION
When pulling out to wear the seat belt,
the tongue should be slowly puled out
of the seat belt guide so that the seat
belt guide does not come off the trim.
Releasing the seat belt:
- The seat belt is released by pressing
the release button (1) on the locking
buckle.
When it is released, the belt should
automatically draw back into the
retractor.
Seat belts
If this does not happen, check the belt
to make sure it is not twisted, then try
again.
Pre-tensioner seat belt
Your vehicle is equipped with driver's
pre-tensioner seat belts (retractor pretensioner and EFD (Emergency Fastening Device)).
The pre-tensioner seat belts may be
activated, when a frontal collision is
severe enough, together with the air
bags.
When the vehicle stops suddenly, or if
the occupant tries to lean forward too
quickly, the seat belt retractor may lock
into position. In certain frontal collisions,
the pre-tensioner will activate and pull
the seat belt into tighter contact against
the occupant's body.
1. Retractor Pre-tensioner
The purpose of the retractor pre-tensioner is to make sure that the shoulder belts fit in tightly against the
occupant's upper body in certain frontal collisions.
2.EFD (Emergency Fastening Device)
The purpose of the EFD is to make
sure that the pelvis belts fit in tightly
against the occupant's lower body in
certain frontal collisions.
If the system senses excessive tension
on the driver or passenger's seat belt
when the pre-tensioner system activates, the load limiter inside the retractor
pre-tensioner will release some of the
pressure on the affected seat belt.

--- Page 43 ---
Safety features of your vehicle NOTICE
When the pre-tensioner seat belts are
activated, a loud noise may be heard
and fine dust, which may appear to be
smoke, may be visible in the passenger
compartment. These are normal operating conditions and are not hazardous.
The seat belt pre-tensioner system consists mainly of the following components. Their locations are shown in the
illustration:
* The actual position of seat belt pre-tensioner system components may differ
from the illustration.
1. SRS air bag warning light
2.Retractor pre-tensioner assembly
3.SRS control module
4.Emergency fastening device (EFD)
WARNING
Skin Irritation
Wash all exposed skin areas thoroughly
after an accident in which the pre-tensioner seat belts were activated. The fine
dust from the pre-tensioner activation
may cause skin irritation and should not
be inhaled for prolonged periods.
NOTICE
- Both the driver's and front passenger's seat belt pre-tensioner systems
may be activated not only in certain
frontal collisions, but also in certain
side collisions or rollovers, if the vehi-
Seat belts
cle is equipped with a side or curtain
air bag.
- Because the sensor that activates the
SRS air bag is connected with the pretensioner seat belt, the SRS air bag
warning light on the instrument
panel will appear for approximately 6
seconds after the ignition switch has
been turned to the ON position, and
then it should turn off.
- If the pre-tensioner seat belt system is
not working properly, this warning
light will appear even if there is not a
malfunction with the SRS air bag. If
the SRS air bag warning light does not
appear when the ignition switch has
been turned to the ON position, or if it
remains illuminated after appearing
for approximately 6 seconds, or if it
appears while the vehicle is being
driven, have an authorized Kia dealer
inspect the pre-tensioner seat belt
and SRS air bag system as soon as
possible.
NOTICE
Do not attempt to service or repair the
pre-tensioner seat belt system in any
manner. Do not attempt to inspect or
replace the pre-tensioner seat belts
yourself. This must be done by an
authorized Kia dealer.
WARNING
Hot pre-tensioner
Do not touch the pre-tensioner seat belt
assemblies for several minutes after
they have been activated. When the pretensioner seat belt mechanism fires
during a collision the pre-tensioner
becomes hot and can burn you.

--- Page 44 ---
Safety features of your vehicle
Pre-tensioners are designed to operate
only one time. After activation, pre-tensioner seat belts must be replaced. If the
pre-tensioner must be replaced, contact
an authorized Kia dealer.
Seat belt precautions
Take the following precautions when
using seat belts.
Infant or small child
Al 50 states have child restraint laws.
You should be aware of the specific
requirements in your state. Child and/or
infant seats must be properly placed
and installed in the rear seat. For more
information about the use of these
restraints, refer to "Child Restraint System (CRS)" on page 3-26.
NOTICE
Small children are best protected from
injury in an accident when properly
restrained in the rear seat by a Child
Restraint System that meets the requirements of the Federal Motor Vehicle
Safety Standards (FMVSS). Before buying any Child Restraint System, make
sure that it has a label certifying that it
meets Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standard 213. The restraint must be
appropriate for your child's height and
weight. Check the label on the child
restraint for this information. Refer to
"Child Restraint System (CRS)" on page
3-26.
Larger children
Children who are too large for Child
Restraint System should always occupy
the rear seat and use the available lap/
shoulder belts. The lap portion should be
fastened and snug on the hips as low as
Seat belts
possible. Check periodically to insure
that the belt fits. A child's squirming
could put the belt out of position. Children are given the most safety in the
event of an accident when they are
restrained by a proper restraint system
in the rear seat. If a larger child (over age
13) must be seated in the front seat, the
child should be securely restrained by
the available lap/shoulder belt and the
seat should be placed in the rearmost
position. Children age 13 and under
should be restrained securely in the rear
seat. NEVER place a child age 13 and
under in the front seat. NEVER place a
rear facing child seat in the front seat of
a vehicle.
If the shoulder belt portion slightly
touches the child's neck or face, try placing the child closer to the center of the
vehicle. If the shoulder belt still touches
their face or neck they need to be
returned to a Child Restraint System.
WARNING
Small children
Do not allow small children to ride in the
vehicle without an appropriate Child
Restraint System. If the shoulder belt
comes in contact with your child's neck
or face, your child is too small to ride in
the vehicle. In a crash, the seat belt will
inflict injury to your child's neck, throat
and face.
Restraint of pregnant women
Pregnant women should wear lap/shoulder belt assemblies whenever possible
according to specific recommendations
by their doctors. The lap portion of the
belt should be worn AS SECURELY AND
LOW AS POSSIBLE.

--- Page 45 ---
Safety features of your vehicle WARNING
Pregnant women
Pregnant women must never place the
lap portion of the seat belt above or on
the abdomen where the fetus is located.
The force of the seat belt during a collision will crush the fetus.
Injured person
A seat belt should be used when an
injured person is being transported.
When this is necessary, you should consult a physician for recommendations.
One person per belt
Two people (including children) should
never attempt to use a single seat belt.
This could increase the severity of injuries in case of an accident.
Do not lie down
To reduce the chance of injuries in the
event of an accident and to achieve
maximum effectiveness of the restraint
system, all passengers should be sitting
up and the front and rear seats should
be in an upright position when the vehicle is moving. A seat belt cannot provide
proper protection if the person is lying
down in the rear seat or if the front and
rear seats are in a reclined position.
Care of seat belts
Seat belt systems should never be disassembled or modified. In addition, care
should be taken to assure that seat belts
and belt hardware are not damaged by
seat hinges, doors or other abuse.
Seat belts
WARNING
Pinched seat belt
Make sure that the webbing and/or
buckle does not get caught or pinched in
the rear seat when returning the rear
seatback to its upright position. A caught
or pinched webbing/buckle may
become damaged and could fail during
a collision or sudden stop.
WARNING
Seatbelts can become hot in a vehicle
that has become hot or been in the sun.
Please handle with care to avoid burns
to infants, children, and people with limited sensation.
Periodic inspectionAll seat belts should be inspected periodically for wear or damage of any kind.
Any damaged parts should be replaced
as soon as possible.
Keep belts clean and dry
Seat belts should be kept clean and dry.
If belts become dirty, they can be
cleaned by using a mild soap solution
and warm water. Bleach, dye, strong
detergents or abrasives should not be
used because they may damage and
weaken the fabric.
When to replace seat belts
The entire in-use seat belt assembly or
assemblies should be replaced if the
vehicle has been involved in an accident.
This should be done even if no damage
is visible. Additional questions concerning seat belt operation should be
directed to an authorized Kia dealer.

--- Page 46 ---
Safety features of your vehicle
Child Restraint System (CRS)
Infants and younger children must be
restrained in an appropriate rear-facing
or forward-facing Child Restraint System
(CRS) that has first been properly
secured to the rear seat of the vehicle.
Infants and younger children must be
restrained in an appropriate rear-facing
or forward-facing Child Restraint System
(CRS) that has first been properly
secured to the rear seat of the vehicle
Please refer to your state or federal laws
for child seating requirements in the
operation of a motor vehicle.
Children always in the rear
Children under age 13 must always ride
in the rear seats and must always be
properly restrained to minimize the risk
of injury in an accident, sudden stop or
sudden maneuver.
WARNING
Restraint Location
Never install a child or infant seat on the
front passenger's seat. A child riding in
the front passenger seat can be forcefuly struck by an inflating airbag and
get seriously injured.
WARNING
Hot Child Restraint
A Child Restraint System can become
very hot if it is left in a closed vehicle on
a sunny day. Be sure to check the seat
cover, buckles and latches before placing a child in the restraint system.
According to accident statistics, children
are safer when properly restrained in the
rear seats than in the front seat. Even
with air bags, children can be seriously
injured or kiled. Children too large for a
Child Restraint System (CRS)
child restraint must use the seat belts
provided.
Al 50 states have child restraint laws
which require children to travel in
approved child restraint devices. The
laws governing the age or height/weight
restrictions at which seat belts can be
used instead of child restraints differs
among states, so you should be aware of
the specific requirements in your state,
and where you are traveling.
The CRS must be properly placed and
installed in the rear seat. You must use a
commercially available CRS that meets
the requirements of the Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standards (FMVSS).
A CRS is generally designed to be
secured in a vehicle seat by lap belt portion of a lap/shoulder belt, or by a
LATCH system in the rear seats of the
vehicle.
Child Restraint System (CRS)
Infants and younger children must be
restrained in an appropriate rear-facing
or forward-facing CRS that has first
been properly secured to the rear seat of
the vehicle. Read and comply with the
instructions for installation and use provided by the manufacturer of the CRS.
Child Restraint Installation
An improperly secured child restraint
can increase the risk of serious injury or
death in an accident. Always take the
following precautions when using a
Child Restraint System:
- Always follow the Child Restraint System manufacturer's instructions for
installation and use.
- Always properly restrain your child in
the child restraint.

--- Page 47 ---
Safety features of your vehicle - If the vehicle head restraint prevents
proper installation of a child seat (as
described in the Child Restraint System manual), the head restraint of the
respective seating position shall be
readjusted or entirely removed.
- Do not use an infant carrier or a child
safety seat that "hooks" over a seatback as it may not provide adequate
protection in an accident.
- A child restraint in the center seating
position may also contact or push up
against the safety belt buckles, which
can damage the buckles and make
them unusable or unsafe. Always
check that the child restraint does not
contact any of the safety belt buckles.
Check the placement of the child
restraint regularly to make sure that it
has not shifted and come into contact
with any of the safety belt buckles.
NOTICE
After an accident, have a Kia dealer
check the Child Restraint System, seat
belts, tether anchors and lower anchors.
Selecting a CRS
When selecting a CRS for your child,
always:
- Make sure the CRS has a label certifying that it meets applicable Federal
Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
(FMVSS 213).
- Select a child restraint based on your
child's height and weight. The
required label or the instructions for
use typically provide this information.
- Select a child restraint that fits the
vehicle seating position where it will
be used. Refer to the child seat and
the child seat manufacturer's instructions for additional instructions.
Child Restraint System (CRS)
- Read and comply with the warnings
and instructions for installation and
use provided with the CRS.
- The American Academy of Pediatrics
provides helpful fit and safety information about child restraints at
www.healthychildren.org.
WARNING
Holding children
Never hold a child in your arms or lap
when riding in a vehicle. The violent
forces created during a crash will tear
the child from your arms and throw the
child against the car's interior. Always
use a Child Restraint System which is
appropriate for your child's height and
weight.
WARNING
Unattended children, the elderly or
pets
An enclosed vehicle can become
extremely hot, causing death or severe
injury such as heatstroke to unattended
children, the elderly or pets who cannot
escape the vehicle. When left or trapped
in a hot vehicle, make sure to stay
hydrated and avoid sun exposure
through the vehicle's windshield.
Furthermore, children might operate
features of the vehicle that could injure
them, or they could encounter other
harm, possibly from someone gaining
entry to the vehicle. Never leave children
or animals unattended in your vehicle.

--- Page 48 ---
Safety features of your vehicle
WARNING
Seat belt use
Do not use one seat belt for two occupants at the same time. This will eliminate any safety benefit provided by the
seat belt to the occupants.
CRS types
There are three main types of the CRS:
rear-facing seats, forward-facing seats,
and booster seats. They are classified
according to the child's age, height and
weight.
Rear-facing child seats
A rear-facing child seat provides
restraint with the seating surface against
the back of the child. The harness system holds the child in place, and in an
accident, acts to keep the child positioned in the seat and reduces the stress
to the neck and spinal cord.All children under age one must always
ride in a rear-facing infant child restraint.
Convertible and 3-in-1 child seats typically have higher height and weight limits for the rear-facing position, allowing
you to keep your child rear-facing for a
longer period of time.
Continue to use a rear-facing child seat
for as long as your child will fit within the
height and weight limits allowed by the
child seat manufacturer. It's the best way
to keep them safe. Once your child has
Child Restraint System (CRS)
outgrown the rear-facing child restraint,
your child is ready for a forward-facing
child restraint with a harness.
Forward-facing child restraints
A forward-facing child seat provides
restraint for the child's body with a harness. Keep children in a forward-facing
child seat with a harness until they reach
the top height or weight limit allowed by
your child restraint's manufacturer.
Once your child outgrows the forwardfacing child restraint, your child is ready
for a booster seat.
Booster seats
A booster seat is a restraint designed to
improve the fit of the vehicle's seat belt
system. A booster seat positions the seat
belt so that it fits properly over the lap of
your child.
Keep your child in a booster seat until
they are big enough to sit in the seat
without a booster and still have the seat
belt fit properly. For a seat belt to fit
properly, the lap belt must lie snugly
across the upper thighs, not the stomach. The shoulder belt should lie snug
across the shoulder and chest and not
across the neck or face. Children under
age 13 must always ride in the rear seats
and must always be properly restrained
to minimize the risk of injury.

--- Page 49 ---
Safety features of your vehicle Installing a CRS
After selecting a proper child seat for
your child, check to make sure it fits
properly in your vehicle.
follow the instructions provided by the
manufacturer when installing the child
seat. Note these general steps when
installing the seat to your vehicle:
- Properly secure the child restraint
to the vehicle. Al child restraints
must be secured to the vehicle with
the lap part of a lap/shoulder belt or
with the LATCH system.
- Make sure the child restraint is
firmly secured. After installing a child
restraint to the vehicle, push and pull
the seat forward and from side-toside to verify that it is securely
attached to the seat. A child restraint
secured with a seat belt should be
installed as firmly as possible. However, some side-to-side movement
can be expected.
- Secure the child in the child
restraint. Make sure the child is properly strapped in the child restraint
according to the manufacturer
instructions.
Lower Anchors and Tether for
Children (LATCH) system
The LATCH system holds a child
restraint during driving and in an accident. This system is designed to make
installation of the child restraint easier
and reduce the possibility of improperly
installing your child restraint. The LATCH
system uses anchors in the vehicle and
attachments on the child restraint. The
LATCH system eliminates the need to
use seat belts to secure the child
restraint to the rear seats.
Child Restraint System (CRS)
Lower anchors are metal bars built into
the vehicle. There are two lower anchors
for each LATCH seating position that will
accommodate a child restraint with
lower attachments.
To use the LATCH system in your vehicle, you must have a child restraint with
LATCH attachments.
The child seat manufacturer will provide
you with instructions on how to use the
child seat with its attachments for the
LATCH lower anchors.
LATCH anchors have been provided in
the left and right outboard rear seating
positions. Their locations are shown in
the illustration. There are no LATCH
anchors provided for the center rear
seating position.
WARNING
LATCH Lower Anchors
Never attempt to attach a LATCH
equipped seat in the center seating position. LATCH lower anchors are only to be
used in the left and right rear outboard
seating positions. You may damage the
anchors or the anchors may fail and
break in a collision if the seat is in the
center seating position.
The lower anchor position indicator symbols are located on the left and right rear
seatbacks to identify the position of the
lower anchors in your vehicle (see
arrows in illustration).

--- Page 50 ---
Safety features of your vehicle
1. Lower Anchor position indicator
2.Lower Anchor
The LATCH anchors are located
between the seatback and the seat
cushion of the rear seat left and right
outboard seating positions.
To use the lower anchor, push the upper
portion of the lower anchor cover.
Securing a child restraint with the
LATCH anchors system
To install a LATCH-compatible child
restraint in either of the rear outboard
seating positions:
1. Move the seat belt buckle away from
the lower anchors. Otherwise, the
webbing or buckle can be damaged
by the latch anchor, which can make
them become unusable or unsafe.
2.Move any other objects away from
the anchors that could prevent a
secure connection between the child
restraint and the lower anchors.
3.Place the child restraint on the vehicle
seat, then attach the seat to the lower
anchors according to the instructions
provided by the child restraint manufacturer.
4.follow the child restraint instructions
for properly adjusting and tightening
Child Restraint System (CRS)
the lower attachments on the child
restraint to the lower anchors.
WARNING
Take the following precautions when
using the LATCH system:
- Read and follow all installation
instructions provided with your Child
Restraint System.
- To prevent the child from reaching
and taking hold of the unused seat
belts, buckle all unused rear seat belts
before the child is placed into the
vehicle. Lock each unused seatbelt
following the instructions in the "automatic locking mode" subsection, and
place the webbing behind the child
seat or against an unused seatback.
Children can be strangled if a shoulder belt becomes wrapped around
their neck and the seat belt tightens.
- NEVER attach more than one child
restraint to a single anchor. This could
cause the anchor or attachment to
come loose or break.
- Always have the LATCH system
inspected by your authorized Kia
dealer after an accident. An accident
can damage the LATCH system and
may not properly secure the child
restraint.
NOTICE
The recommended maximum weight for
the LATCH system is 65 lbs. (30 kg).
When selecting a proper child restraint,
consider that the maximum total weight
of the child plus the child restraint
should be less than 65 lbs. (30 kg).
As a guide, the MAX child restraint
weight should be determined by the following calculation:

--- Page 51 ---
Safety features of your vehicle Child Restraint Weight = 65 - (child's
total weight in lbs.)
Securing a child restraint seat
with "Tether Anchor" system
First secure the child restraint with the
LATCH lower anchors or the seat belt. If
the child restraint manufacturer recommends that the top tether strap be
attached, attach and tighten the top
tether strap to the top tether strap
anchor.
Child Restraint hook holders are located
on the seat back.
WARNING
Take the following precautions when
installing the tether strap:
- Read and follow all installation
instructions provided with your Child
Restraint System.
- NEVER attach more than one child
restraint to a single tether anchor.
This could cause the anchor or attachment to come loose or break.
- Do not attach the tether strap to anything other than the correct tether
anchor. It may not work properly if
attached to something else.
- Do not use the tether anchors for
adult seat belts or harnesses, or for
attaching other items or equipment to
the vehicle.
- Always fasten the seat belts behind
the child restraint seat when they are
not used to secure the child seat. Fail-
Child Restraint System (CRS)
ure to do so may result in child strangulation.
To install the tether anchor:
1. Route the Child Restraint System seat
strap over the seatback.
For vehicles with adjustable headrest,
route the tether strap under the headrest and between the headrest posts,
otherwise route the tether strap over
the top of the seatback.
2.Connect the top-tether to the toptether anchorage, then tighten the
top-tether according to the instructions of your Child Restraint System's
manufacturer to firmly attach the
Child Restraint System to the seat.
3.Check that the child restraint is
securely attached to the seat by pushing and pulling the seat forward and
from side-to-side.

--- Page 52 ---
Safety features of your vehicle
Securing a child restraint with a
lap/shoulder belt
When not using the LATCH system, al
child restraints must be secured to a
vehicle rear seat with the lap part of a
lap/shoulder belt.
Automatic locking mode
Al passenger seat belts move freely
under normal conditions and only lock
under extreme or emergency conditions
(emergency locking mode). So, in order
to secure a child restraint, you must
manually pull the seat belt all the way
out to shift the retractor to the "automatic locking" mode.
The "automatic locking" mode will help
prevent the normal movement of the
child in the vehicle from causing the seat
belt to loosen and compromise the CRS.
To install a CRS on the rear seats, do the
following:
1. Place the CRS on a rear seat and
route the lap/shoulder belt around or
through the child restraint, following
the restraint manufacturer's instructions.
Be sure the seat belt webbing is not
twisted.
2.Fasten the lap/shoulder belt latch into
the buckle. Listen for the distinct
"click" sound.
Position the release button so that it is
easy to access in case of an emergency.
Child Restraint System (CRS)
3.Pull the shoulder portion of the seat
belt all the way out. When the shoulder portion of the seat belt is fuly
extended, it will shift the retractor to
the "automatic locking" (child
restraint) mode.
4.Slowly allow the shoulder portion of
the seat belt to retract and listen for
an audible "clicking" or "ratcheting"
sound. This indicates that the retractor is in the "automatic locking" mode.
If no distinct sound is heard, repeat
steps 3 and 4.
5.Remove as much slack from the belt
as possible by pushing down on the
CRS while feeding the shoulder belt
back into the retractor.
6.Push and pull on the CRS to confirm
that the seat belt is holding it firmly in
place. If it is not, release the seat belt
and repeat steps 2 through 6.
7.Double check that the retractor is in
the "automatic locking" mode by

--- Page 53 ---
Safety features of your vehicle Child Restraint System (CRS)
attempting to pull more of the seat
belt out of the retractor. If you cannot,
the retractor is in the "automatic locking" mode.
If your CRS manufacturer instructs or
recommends you to use a tether anchor
with the lap/shoulder belt, refer to
"Securing a child restraint with the
LATCH anchors system" on page 3-30
for more information.
NOTICE
When the seat belt is allowed to retract
to its fuly stowed position, the retractor
will automatically switch from the "automatic locking" mode to the emergency
lock mode for normal adult usage.
WARNING
Auto lock mode
Set the retractor to Automatic Lock
mode when installing any Child Restraint
System. If the retractor is not in the automatic locking mode, the child restraint
can move when your vehicle turns or
stops suddenly. A child can be seriously
injured or kiled if the child restraint is
not properly anchored in the car.
To remove the child restraint, press the
release button on the buckle and then
pull the lap/shoulder belt out of the
restraint and allow the seat belt to
retract fuly.

--- Page 54 ---
moty₴ t stremelqque beonsvbs - esd TiA

Safety features of your vehicle
1. Driver's front air bag
2. Passenger's front air bag
3. Side air bag
4. Curtain air bag
lision or rollover.
Air bag - advanced Supplemental Restraint System
Even in vehicles with air bags, you and your passengers must always wear the safety
belts provided in order to minimize the risk and severity of injury in the event of a col-
Air bag - advanced Supplemental Restraint System

--- Page 55 ---
Safety features of your vehicle Air bag - advanced Supplemental Restraint System
How does the air bag system
operate?
- Air bags are activated (able to inflate
if necessary) only when the ENGINE
START/STOP button has been turned
to the ON position.
- The appropriate air bags inflate
instantly in the event of a serious
frontal collision or side collision in
order to help protect the occupants
from serious physical injury.
- There is no single speed at which the
air bags will inflate. Generally, air bags
are designed to inflate based upon
the severity of a collision and its direction, etc. Several factors determine
whether the sensors produce an electronic deployment / inflation signal.
- Air bags will not deploy in every crash
or collision situations. Air bag deployment depends on a number of factors
including vehicle speed, angles of
impact, and, the density and stiffness
of the vehicles or objects which your
vehicle hits in the collision. The determining factors are not limited to those
mentioned above.
- The front air bags will completely
inflate and deflate in an instant. It is
virtually impossible for you to see the
air bags inflate during an accident. It
is much more likely that you will simply see the deflated air bags hanging
out of their storage compartments
after the collision.
- In addition to inflating in serious side
collisions, side and/or curtain air bags
will inflate if the sensing system
detects a rollover.
- When a rollover is detected, side and/
or curtain airbags will remain inflated
longer. This helps provide protection
from ejection, especially when used in
conjunction with the seat belts.
- In order to help provide protection,
the air bags must inflate rapidly. The
airbag inflates extremely fast between
the occupant and the vehicle structures before the occupant impacts the
vehicle structures. This speed of inflation reduces the risk of serious or lifethreatening injuries and is thus a necessary part of the air bag design.
However, airbag inflation can also
cause injuries which can include fascial abrasions, bruises and broken
bones. This is because the rapid inflation also causes the airbags to expand
with a great deal of force.
- There are even circumstances
under which contact with the steering wheel or passenger air bag can
cause fatal injuries, especially if the
occupant is positioned excessively
close to the steering wheel or passenger air bag.
WARNING
Airbag inflation
Sit as far back as possible from the
steering wheel while still maintaining
comfortable control of the vehicle. A distance of at least 10 in (25 cm) from your
chest to the steering wheel is recommended. Failure to do so can result in
airbag inflation injuries to the driver.

--- Page 56 ---
Safety features of your vehicle
Noise and smoke
When inflated, the air bags make a loud
noise and leave smoke and powder in
the air inside the vehicle. This is normal
and is a result of the ignition of the air
bag inflator. After the air bag inflates,
you may feel substantial discomfort in
breathing due to the contact of your
chest with both the seat belt and the air
bag, as well as from breathing the
smoke and powder. Open your doors
and/or windows as soon as possible
after impact in order to reduce discomfort and prevent prolonged exposure to the smoke and powder.
Though smoke and powder are nontoxic, it may cause irritation to the skin
(eyes, nose and throat, etc). If this is the
case, wash and rinse with cold water
immediately and consult a doctor if the
symptom persists.
WARNING
Hot components
Do not touch the air bag storage area's
internal components immediately after
airbag inflation. The air bag related parts
in the steering wheel, instrument panel
and the roof rails above the front and
rear doors are very hot. Hot components
can result in burn injuries.
WARNING
Do not install or place accessories over
the airbag's location or in areas where
the airbags will extend if deployed. They
can interfere with the airbag or harm
occupants during a deployment and can
cause serious injury or death.
Air bag - advanced Supplemental Restraint System
Do not install a child restraint on
the front passenger's seat
Never place a rear-facing child restraint
in the front passenger's seat.
If the air bag deploys, it would impact
the rear-facing child restraint, causing
serious or fatal injury.
In addition, do not place front-facing
child restraints in the front passenger's
seat. If the front passenger air bag
inflates, it could cause serious or fatal
injuries to the child.
WARNING
Air bag deployment
When children are seated in the rear
outboard seats of a vehicle equipped
with side and/or curtain air bags, install
the Child Restraint System as far away
from the door side as possible. Inflation
of the side and/or curtain air bags could
impact the child.
Air bag warning light
The purpose of air bag warning light in
your instrument panel is to alert you of a
potential problem with your air bag system, which could include your side and/
or curtain air bags used for rollover protection.
If the air bag warning light appears for
more than 6 seconds after the ENGINE

--- Page 57 ---
Safety features of your vehicle Air bag - advanced Supplemental Restraint System
START/STOP button has been turned to
the ON position, or if it appears during
vehicle operation, an SRS component
may not be functioning properly and
you should have your vehicle checked
by an authorized Kia dealer.
If any of the following conditions occur,
this indicates a malfunction in the air
bag system. Have an authorized Kia
dealer inspect the air bag system as
soon as possible.
- The light does not turn on briefly
when you turn the ENGINE START/
STOP button to the ON position.
- The light stays on after appearing for
approximately 6 seconds.
- The light comes on while the vehicle is
in motion.
- The light blinks when the ENGINE
START/STOP button to the ON position.
Supplemental Restraint System
(SRS) components and functions
3.Front side air bag modules
4.Curtain air bag modules
5.Retractor pre-tensioner assemblies
6.Air bag warning light
7.SRS control module (SRSCM)/ rollover
sensor
8.Front impact sensors
9.Side impact sensors
10.Side pressure sensors
11.Retractor pre-tensioner assemblies
(rear side)
12.EFD (Emergency Fastening Device)
13.Passenger's front air bag ON/OFF
indicator (Over head console)
14.Front driver/passenger's seat belt
buckle sensor
15.Rear side air bag modules
16.Occupant Detection System(ODS)
Driver's front air bag (1)
The front air bag modules are located
both in the center of the steering wheel
and in the front passenger's panel above
the glove box. When the SRSCM detects
a sufficiently severe impact to the front
of the vehicle, it will automatically deploy
the front air bags.
Driver's front air bag (2)
* The actual position of SRS components
may differ from the illustration.
The SRS consists of the following components:
1. Driver's front air bag module
2.Passenger's front air bag module

--- Page 58 ---
Safety features of your vehicle
Air bag - advanced Supplemental Restraint System
Upon deployment, tear seams molded
directly into the pad covers will separate
under pressure from the expansion of
the air bags. Further opening of the covers then allows full inflation of the air
bags.
WARNING
Driver's front air bag (3)
Flying objects
Do not place any objects (an umbrela,
bag, etc.) between the front door and
the front seat. Such objects may become
dangerous projectiles if the side airbag
inflates.
A fuly inflated airbag (with a properly
fastened seat belt) slows the forward
motion of the driver or passenger,
reducing the risk of head and chest
injury.
After complete inflation, the air bag
immediately starts deflating, enabling
the driver to maintain forward visibility
and the ability to steer or operate other
controls.
Passenger's front air bag
WARNING
Air bag obstructions
Do not install or place any accessories
on the steering wheel, instrument panel,
or on the front passenger's panel above
the glove box in a vehicle. Such objects
may become dangerous projectiles if the
air bag deploys.
- If an air bag deploys, there may be a
loud noise followed by a fine dust
released in the vehicle. These conditions are normal and are not hazardous - the air bags are packed in this
fine powder. The dust generated
during air bag deployment may cause
skin or eye irritation as well as aggravate asthma for some persons.
Always wash all exposed skin areas
thoroughly with cold water and a mild
soap after an accident in which the air
bags were deployed.
- The SRS can function only when the
ENGINE START/STOP button is in the
ON position. The SRS is not working
properly if any of the following situations occur:
- the SRS airbag warning light does
not appear
- the SRS airbag warning light
remains on continuously after
appearing for about 6 seconds
when the ENGINE START/STOP
button is turned to the ON position
or after the vehicle is in ready mode
- the SRS airbag warning light comes
on while driving
If this occurs, have your vehicle immediately inspected by an authorized Kia
dealer.

--- Page 59 ---
Safety features of your vehicle Air bag - advanced Supplemental Restraint System
NOTICE
Before you replace a fuse or disconnect
a battery terminal, change the ENGINE
START/STOP button to the OFF position.
Never remove or replace the air bag
related fuse(s) when the ENGINE
START/STOP button is ON position. Failure to heed this warning will cause the
SRS air bag warning light to appear.
Occupant Detection System
(ODS)
Your vehicle is equipped with an Occupant Detection System (ODS) in the front
passenger's seat.
The ODS is designed to detect the presence of a properly-seated front passenger and determine if the passenger's
front air bag should be enabled (may
inflate) or not. Only the front passenger
front air bag is controlled by the ODS.
Do not put anything in front of the passenger air bag " " indicator.
Main components of the ODS
- A detection device is located within
the front passenger seat cushion.
- An electronic system determines
whether the passenger air bag systems should be activated or deactivated.
- An indicator light located on the overhead console which appears the
words PASSENGER AIR BAG " "
indicates the front passenger air bag
system is deactivated.
- The overhead console air bag warning
light is interconnected with the ODS.
If the front passenger seat is occupied
by a person that the system determines
to be of sufficient mass, and he/she sits
properly (sitting upright with the seatback in an upright position, centered on
the seat cushion with their seat belt on,
legs comfortably extended and feet on
the floor), the PASSENGER AIR BAG
" " indicator will turn off and the front
passenger's air bag will be able to inflate
in frontal crashes.
You will find the PASSENGER AIR BAG
" " indicator on the overhead console.
This system detects the conditions 1~4
in the following table and activates or
deactivates the front passenger air bag
based on these conditions.
The ODS may not function properly if
the passenger takes actions which can
defeat the detection system. These
include:
- Failing to sit in an upright position.
- Leaning against the door or center
console.
- Sitting towards the sides or the front
of the seat.
- Putting legs on the dashboard or resting them on other locations which
reduce the passenger weight on the
front seat.
- Improperly wearing the safety belt.
- Reclining the seatback.

--- Page 60 ---
Safety features of your vehicle
Air bag - advanced Supplemental Restraint System
Conditions and operation of the front passenger ODS
Indicator/Warning light Devices
Condition detected by the occupant classification system
"PASSENGER AIR BAG
OFF" indicator light SRS warning light Front passenger air bag
1. Adult*1
Off Off Activated
2. Child Restraint System (CRS) with child under
12 months old*2*3*4
On Off Deactivated
3. Unoccupied On Off Deactivated
4. Malfunction in the system Off On Activated
*1. *2. *3. *4. The system judges a person of adult size as an adult. When a smaler adult sits in the front passenger
seat, the system may recognize him/her as a child depending on his/her physique and posture.
Do not allow children to ride in the front passenger seat. When a larger child who has outgrown a CRS
sits in the front passenger seat, the system may recognize him/her as an adult depending upon his/her
physique or sitting position.
Never install a CRS on the front passenger seat.
The PASSENGER AIR BAG " " indicator may turn on or off when a child above 12 months to 12 years
old (with or without a CRS) sits in the front passenger seat. This is a normal condition.
- After the passenger seat has been
removed or installed for repair purposes, check for normal operation of
the PASSENGER AIR BAG " " and
air bag warning lights with a person
seated or not seated in the passenger
seat.
WARNING
- Do not install a child restraint seat in
the passenger seat when the seat is
heavily soaked with any type of liquid.
- Do not alter or remodel the Occupant
Detection System (ODS). This may
damage the system and prevent its
proper function in a collision.
NOTICE
- Do not use car seat cushions that
cover up the surface of the seat and
aftermarket manufactured passenger
seat heaters.
- After conducting car interior cleaning
using steam or detergent, the seat
should be dried properly. Afterward,
check for normal operation of the
PASSENGER AIR BAG "OFF" and air
bag warning lights.
- Any service related to the passenger
seat and the ODS must be done at an
authorized Kia dealership.

--- Page 61 ---
Safety features of your vehicle Air bag - advanced Supplemental Restraint System
WARNING
When the PASSENGER AIR BAG " "
symbol appears, the passenger air bag
system will not operate. The passenger
air bag system will operate when necessary if the symbol does not appear.
- Do not move your hips too forward in
the seat.
NOTICE
Do not modify or replace the front passenger seat. Don't place anything on or
attach anything such as a blanket, front
seat cover or aftermarket seat heater to
the front passenger seat. This can
adversely affect the Occupant Detection
System.
- Never excessively recline the front
passenger seatback.
WARNING
ODS System
Riding in an improper position adversely
affects the Occupant Detection System
and may result in the deactivation of the
front passenger airbag. It is important
for the driver to instruct the passenger
as to the proper seating instructions as
contained in this manual.
- Do not place a heavy load in the front
passenger seatback pocket or on the
front passenger seat.
- Never place feet on the dashboard.
- Never lean on the door or center console.
- Do not place feet on the front passenger seatback.

--- Page 62 ---
Safety features of your vehicle
- Do not sit with your weight excessively skewing to the left or right on
the front passenger seat.
- Do not use car seat accessories, such
as thick blankets and cushions, that
cover up the car seat surface.
- Do not sit on the passenger seat
wearing heavily padded clothes, such
as ski wear and hip protector.
- Do not place electronic devices, such
as laptops and DVD player, or conductive materials such, as water bottles, on the passenger seat.
- Do not use electronic devices, such as
laptops and satelite radios, that use
inverter chargers.
- Wet Passenger Seat
Do not spill liquid in the passenger
seat. Spiled liquid on the passenger
seat may cause the air bag warning
light to appear or malfunction. If any
liquid is spiled, make sure the seat
Air bag - advanced Supplemental Restraint System
has been completely dried before
driving the vehicle.
Proper position
When an adult is seated in the front passenger seat, if the PASSENGER AIR BAG
" " indicator is on, change the ENGINE
START/STOP button to the OFF position
and ask the passenger to sit properly
(sitting upright with the seatback in an
upright position, centered on the seat
cushion with their seat belt on, legs comfortably extended and their feet on the
floor). Restart the vehicle and have the
person remain in that position. This will
allow the system to detect the person
and to enable the passenger air bag.
If the PASSENGER AIR BAG " " indicator is still on, ask the passenger to move
to the rear seat.
WARNING
PASSENGER AIR BAG " " light
Do not allow an adult passenger to ride
in the front seat when the PASSENGER
AIR BAG " " indicator appears,
because the air bag will not deploy in the
event of a crash. The driver must

--- Page 63 ---
Safety features of your vehicle Air bag - advanced Supplemental Restraint System
instruct the passenger to reposition himself in the seat. Failure to properly position yourself may lead to air bag
deactivation resulting in air bag nondeployment in a collision. If the PASSEN-
GER AIR BAG " " indicator remains
illuminated after the passenger repositions themselves properly and the car is
restarted, it is recommended that passenger move to the rear seat because
the passenger's front air bag will not
deploy.
the PASSENGER AIRBAG " " indicator
will not appear. In this case, the passenger's front airbag will inflate in frontal
impact crashes even if there is no occupant in the front passenger seat.
Driver's and passenger's front air
bag
Your vehicle is equipped with an
advanced supplemental restraint (air
bag) system and lap/shoulder belts at
both the driver and passenger seating
position.
NOTICE
Driver's front air bag
The PASSENGER AIR BAG " " indicator appears for about 4 seconds after
the ENGINE START/STOP button is
turned to the ON position after the vehicle is started. If the front passenger seat
is occupied, the occupant detection sensor will then classify the front passenger
after several more seconds.
Passenger's front air bag
- Even though your vehicle is equipped
with the Occupant Detection System,
never install a Child Restraint System
in the front passenger's seat. A
deploying air bag can forcefuly strike
a child resulting in serious injuries or
death.
Any child age 13 and under should ride
in the rear seat. Children too large for
child restraints should use the available
lap/shoulder belts. No matter what type
of crash, children of all ages are safer
when restrained in the rear seat.
If the ODS is not working properly, the
Supplemental Restraint System (SRS) air
bag warning light on the instrument
panel will appear because the passenger's front air bag is connected with the
ODS. If there is a malfunction of the ODS
The indication of the system's presence
are the letters "AIR BAG" located on the
air bag pad cover on the steering wheel
and the passenger's side front panel pad
above the glove box.
The Supplemental Restraint System
(SRS) consists of air bags installed under
the pad covers in the center of the steering wheel and the passenger's side front
panel above the glove box.
The purpose of the SRS is to provide the
vehicle's driver and/or the front passenger with additional protection than that
offered by the seat belt system alone in

--- Page 64 ---
Safety features of your vehicle
Air bag - advanced Supplemental Restraint System
case of a frontal impact of sufficient
severity. The SRS uses sensors to gather
information about the driver's and front
passenger's seat belt usage and impact
severity.
The seat belt buckle sensor determines
if the front passenger's seat belt is fastened.
These sensors provide the ability to control the SRS deployment based on
whether or not the seat belts are fastened, and how severe the impact is.
The advanced SRS offers the ability to
control the air bag inflation with two levels. A first stage level is provided for
moderate-severity impacts. A second
stage level is provided for more severe
impacts.
According to the impact severity and
seat belt usage, the SRS Control Module
(SRSCM) controls the air bag inflation.
Failure to properly wear seat belts can
increase the risk or severity of injury in
an accident.
Additionally, your vehicle is equipped
with an Occupant Detection System
(ODS) in the front passenger's seat. The
ODS detects the presence of a passenger in the front passenger's seat and will
turn off the front passenger's air bag
under certain conditions. For more
detail, see "Occupant Detection System
(ODS)" on page 3-39.
cle's advanced air bag system. That contact is Kia's tol-free Customer
Assistance center at 1-800-333-4Kia
(U.S. only). However, Kia does not
endorse nor will it support any changes
to any part or structure of the vehicle
that could affect the advanced air bag
system, including the ODS.
WARNING
Replacement/modifications
The front passenger seat, dashboard or
door should not be replaced except by
an authorized Kia dealer using original
Kia parts designed for this vehicle and
model. Any other such replacement or
modification could adversely affect the
operation of the Occupant Detection
System and your advanced air bags.
Advanced air bags are combined with
pre-tensioner seat belts to help provide
enhanced occupant protection in frontal
crashes. Front air bags are not intended
to deploy in collisions in which sufficient
protection can be provided by the seat
belt.
NOTICE
Air bags can only be used once – have
an authorized Kia dealer replace the air
bag immediately after deployment.
WARNING
Modification to the seat structure can
cause the air bag to deploy at a different
level than should be provided.
Front air bags are not intended to
deploy in side-impact, rear-impact or
rollover crashes. However, when frontal
deployment threshold is satisfied at
side-impact, front air bags may deploy.
In addition, front air bags will not deploy
in frontal crashes below the deployment
threshold.
Manufacturers are required by government regulations to provide a contact
point concerning modifications to the
vehicle for persons with disabilities,
which modifications may affect the vehi-

--- Page 65 ---
Safety features of your vehicle Air bag - advanced Supplemental Restraint System
WARNING
Side air bag
Your vehicle is equipped with a side air
bag in each front and rear seat.
SRS Wiring
Do not tamper with or disconnect SRS
wiring or other components of the SRS
system. Doing so could result in injury,
due to accidental deployment of the air
bags or by rendering the SRS inoperative.
WARNING
No attaching objects
No objects (such as crash pad cover, cellular phone holder, cup holder, perfume
or stickers) should be placed over or
near the air bag modules on the steering
wheel, instrument panel, windshield
glass, and the front passenger's panel
above the glove box. Such objects could
cause harm if the vehicle is in a crash
severe enough to cause the air bags to
deploy.
To reduce the risk of serious injury and
death, do not place any objects, arms,
legs or feet over the air bag and do not
place any objects between the air bag
and yourself.
Additionally, never place or insert any
object into any small opening near side
airbag labels attached to the vehicle
seats.
When the air bag deploys, the object
may affect the deployment and result in
unexpected accident or bodily harm.
* The actual air bags in the vehicle may
differ from the illustration.
The purpose of the air bag is to provide
the vehicle's driver and/or the front passenger and rear outboard passenger
with additional protection than that
offered by the seat belt alone.
- The side air bags are designed to
deploy during certain side-impact collisions, depending on the crash severity of impact.
- The side air bags may deploy on the
side of the impact or on both sides.
- The side and/or curtain air bags on
both sides of the vehicle will deploy if
a rollover or possible rollover is
detected.
- The side air bags are not designed to
deploy in all side impact or rollover
situations.

--- Page 66 ---
Safety features of your vehicle
WARNING
Unexpected deployment
Avoid impact to the side impact airbag
sensor when the ENGINE START/STOP
button is ON to prevent unexpected
deployment of the side air bag.
- The side air bag is supplemental to
the driver's and the passenger's seat
belt systems and is not a substitute
for them. Therefore your seat belts
must be worn at all times while the
vehicle is in operation.
- For best protection from the side air
bag system and to avoid being injured
by the deploying side air bag occupants should sit in an upright position
with the seat belt properly fastened.
The driver's hands should be placed
on the steering wheel at the 9:00 and
3:00 positions. The passenger's arms
and hands should be placed on their
laps.
WARNING
Deployment
Do not install any accessories including
seat covers, on the side or near the side
air bag as this may affect the deployment of the side air bags.
- If the seat or seat cover is damaged,
have the vehicle checked and
repaired by an authorized Kia dealer.
Inform the dealer that your vehicle is
equipped with side air bags and an
Occupant Detection System (ODS).
Air bag - advanced Supplemental Restraint System
WARNING
Flying objects
Do not place any objects (an umbrela,
bag, etc.) between the front door and
the front seat. Such objects may become
dangerous projectiles if the side airbag
inflates.
WARNING
No attaching objects
- Do not place any objects over the air
bag or between the air bag and yourself. Also, do not attach any objects
around the area the air bag inflates
such as the door, side door glass,
front and rear pilar.
- Do not put any objects between the
side airbag label and seat cushion. It
could cause harm if the vehicle is in a
crash severe enough to cause the air
bags to deploy.
- Never place or insert any object into
any small opening near side airbag
labels attached to the vehicle seats.
When the air bag deploys, the object
may affect the deployment and result
in unexpected accident or bodily
harm.
- Do not install any accessories on the
side or near the side air bags.

--- Page 67 ---
Safety features of your vehicle Air bag - advanced Supplemental Restraint System
Curtain air bag
Curtain air bags are located along both
sides of the roof rails above the front
and rear doors.
NOTICE
Never try to open or repair any components of the side and curtain air bag system. This should only be done by an
authorized Kia dealer.
WARNING
No attaching objects
- Do not place any objects over the air
bag. Also, do not attach any objects
around the area the air bag inflates
such as the door, side door glass,
front and rear pilar, roof side rail.
- Do not hang hard, breakable, or
heavy objects on the coat hooks for
safety reasons.
* The actual air bags in the vehicle may
differ from the illustration.
They are designed to help protect occupants in certain side impacts and to help
prevent them from ejecting out of the
vehicle as a result of a rollover, especially when the seatbelts are also in use.
- The curtain air bags are designed to
deploy during certain side impact collisions, depending on the severity of
impact. The curtain air bags on both
sides of the vehicle will also deploy in
certain rollover situations.
- The curtain air bags are not designed
to deploy in all side impact or rollover
situations.
- Depending upon the conditions, only
one curtain air bag may deploy.
Do not allow the passengers to lean their
heads or bodies against the doors, put
their arms on the doors, stretch their
arms out of the window or place objects
between the doors and passengers
when they are seated on seats equipped
with side impact and/or curtain air bags.

--- Page 68 ---
moty₴ tis Istnemelqque beonsvbs - esd 1iA

Safety features of your vehicle
Air bag collision sensors
ONQ5021062 ONQ5021063
2. Front impact sensors
3. Side pressure sensors (tront door)
4. Side impact sensors (B-pillar)
5. Side impact sensors (C-pillar)
1. Supplemental Restraint System (SRS) control module/rollover sensor
Air bag - advanced Supplemental Restraint System
ONQ5021073L ONQ50210661

--- Page 69 ---
Safety features of your vehicle Air bag - advanced Supplemental Restraint System
WARNING
Air bag sensors
- Do not hit or allow any objects to
impact the locations where air bags or
sensors are installed.
This may cause unexpected air bag
deployment, which could result in
serious personal injury or death.
- If the installation location or angle of
the sensors is altered in any way, the
air bags may deploy when they
should not or they may not deploy
when they should.
Therefore, do not try to perform maintenance on or around the air bag sensors. Have the vehicle checked and
repaired by an authorized Kia dealer.
- Do not handle or move the front
impact sensors. Changing the position
or angle of the sensor can interfere
with the proper functioning of the air
bag.
These include rear impacts, second or
third collisions in multiple impact accidents, as well as low speed impacts.
Air bag inflation conditions
Front air bags
Front air bags are designed to inflate in
a frontal collision depending on several
factors, including the severity of impact
of the front collision.
Side and curtain air bags
Problems may arise if the sensor installation angles are changed due to the
deformation of the front bumper, front
end module, body or front doors where
side collision sensors are installed. Have
the vehicle checked and repaired by an
authorized Kia dealer.
installing bumper guards (or side step or
running board) or replacing a bumper
(or front door module) with non-genuine
parts may adversely affect your vehicle's
collision and air bag deployment performance.
Why didn't my air bag go off in a
collision? (Inflation and non-inflation conditions of the air bag)
There are many types of accidents in
which the air bag would not be expected
to provide additional protection.
* The actual air bags in the vehicle may
differ from the illustration.
Side and/or curtain air bags are
designed to inflate when an impact is
detected by side collision sensors
depending on several factors, including
the severity of impact resulting from a
side impact collision.

--- Page 70 ---
Safety features of your vehicle
Air bag - advanced Supplemental Restraint System
Also, the side and curtain air bags are
designed to inflate when a rollover is
detected by a rollover sensor.
Although the front air bags (driver's and
front passenger's air bags) are primarily
designed to inflate in frontal collisions,
they may inflate in other types of collisions if the front impact sensors detect a
sufficient frontal force in another type of
impact.
Similarly, although side and curtain air
bags are designed to inflate in certain
side impact collisions, they may inflate in
other types of collisions where a side
force is detected by the sensors. For
instance, side air bag and/or curtain air
bags may inflate if rollover sensors indicate the possibility of a rollover occurring (even if none actually occurs) or in
other situations, including when the
vehicle is tilted while being towed.
Even if side and/or curtain air bags do
not provide impact protection in a rollover, they will deploy to prevent ejection
of occupants, especially those who are
restrained with seat belts.
If the vehicle chassis is impacted by
bumps or objects on unimproved roads,
the air bags may deploy. Drive carefuly
on unimproved roads or on surfaces not
designed for vehicle traffic to prevent
unintended air bag deployment.
Air bag non-inflation conditions
- Air bags may not deploy in certain
low-speed collisions where the air bag
would not add any benefit beyond the
protection already offered by the seat
belts.
- Front air bags are not designed to
inflate in rear collisions, because
occupants are moved backward by
the force of the impact. In this case,
inflated air bags would not be able to
provide any additional benefit.
- Front airbags may not inflate in side
impact collisions, because passengers move in the direction of the collision. Thus, in side impacts, frontal
airbag deployment would not provide
additional occupant protection.
- In an angled collision, the force of
impact may direct the occupants in a
direction where the air bags would not
be able to provide any additional benefit, and thus the sensors may not
deploy any air bags.

--- Page 71 ---
Safety features of your vehicle Air bag - advanced Supplemental Restraint System
- ONQ5021038
- Just before impact, drivers often
brake heavily. Such heavy braking
lowers the front portion of the vehicle
causing it to "ride" under a vehicle
with a higher ground clearance. Be
particularly careful when following a
vehicle with a high ground clearance
because airbags may not inflate when
your vehicle underrides another vehicle during a crash.
- Front air bags may not inflate in al
rollover accidents when the SRS Control Module (SRSCM) indicates that
the front air bag deployment would
not provide additional occupant protection.
Supplemental Restraint System
(SRS) care
The Supplemental Restraint System
(SRS) is virtually maintenance-free and
so there are no parts you can safely service by yourself.
If the SRS air bag warning light does not
appear, or continuously remains on,
have your vehicle immediately inspected
by an authorized Kia dealer.
Any work on the SRS, such as removing,
installing, repairing, or any work on the
steering wheel, the front passenger's
panel, front seats and roof rails must be
performed by an authorized Kia dealer.
Improper handling of the SRS may result
in serious personal injury.
For cleaning the air bag pad covers, use
only a soft, dry cloth or one which has
been moistened with plain water. Solvents or cleaners could adversely affect
the air bag covers and proper deployment of the system.
If components of the air bag system
must be discarded, or if the vehicle must
be scrapped, certain safety precautions
must be observed. An authorized Kia
dealer knows these precautions and can
give you the necessary information. Failure to follow these precautions and procedures could increase the risk of bodily
injury.
- Airbags may not inflate if the vehicle
colides with an object such as a utility
pole or tree. This is because the point
of impact is concentrated in one area
and the full force of the impact is not
delivered to the sensors.

--- Page 72 ---
Safety features of your vehicle
Air bag - advanced Supplemental Restraint System
WARNING
Tampering with SRS
Do not tamper with or disconnect SRS
wiring or other components of the SRS
system. Doing so could result in the accidental inflation of the air bag or render
the SRS inoperative.
provided by the seat belt and increase
the chance of serious injury in a crash.
- Passengers should not place hard
or sharp objects between themselves and the air bags. Carrying
hard or sharp objects on your lap or in
your mouth can result in injuries if an
air bag inflates.
WARNING
Towing vehicle
Always have the ignition off and wait for
3 minutes when your vehicle is being
towed. The side air bags may inflate if
the vehicle is tilted such as when being
towed because of the rollover sensors in
the vehicle.
Additional safety precautions
- Never let passengers ride in the
cargo area or on top of a foldeddown back seat. Al occupants
should sit upright, fuly back in their
seats with their seat belts on and their
feet on the floor.
- Passengers should not move out of
or change seats while the vehicle is
moving. A passenger who is not
wearing a seat belt during a crash or
emergency stop can be thrown
against the inside of the vehicle,
against other occupants, or out of the
vehicle.
- Each seat belt is designed to
restrain one occupant. If more than
one person uses the same seat belt,
they could be seriously injured or
kiled in a collision.
- Do not use any accessories on seat
belts. Devices claiming to improve
occupant comfort or reposition the
seat belt can reduce the protection
- Keep occupants away from the air
bag covers. Al occupants should sit
upright, fuly back in their seats with
their seat belts on and their feet on
the floor. If occupants are too close to
the air bag covers, they could be
injured if the air bags inflate.
- Do not attach or place objects on or
near the air bag covers. Any object
attached to or placed on the front or
side air bag covers could interfere
with the proper operation of the air
bags.
- Do not modify the front seats.Modification of the front seats could interfere with the operation of the
supplemental restraint system sensing components or side air bags.
- Do not place items under the front
seats. Placing items under the front
seats could interfere with the operation of the supplemental restraint system sensing components and wiring
harnesses.
- Never hold an infant or child on
your lap. The infant or child could be
seriously injured or kiled in the event
of a crash. Al infants and children
should be properly restrained in
appropriate child safety seats or seat
belts in the rear seat.

--- Page 73 ---
Safety features of your vehicle Air bag - advanced Supplemental Restraint System
WARNING
- Sitting improperly or out of position
can cause occupants to be shifted too
close to a deploying air bag, strike the
interior structure or be thrown from
the vehicle resulting in serious injury
or death.
- Always sit upright with the seatback in
an upright position, centered on the
seat cushion with your seat belt on,
legs comfortably extended and your
feet on the floor.
Adding equipment to or modifying your air bag-equipped vehicle
If you modify your vehicle by changing
your vehicle's frame, bumper system,
front end or side sheet metal or ride
height, this may affect the operation of
your vehicle's air bag system.
Air bag warning labels
Air bag warning labels, some required
by the U.S. National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration (NHTSA, U.S.
only), are attached to the sun visor to
alert the driver and passengers of
potential risks of the air bag system.

--- Page 74 ---
Features of your vehicle
Features of your vehicle
Keys 4-6
- Battery replacement 4-6
- Using the remote key 4-7
- Smart key 4-7
Immobilizer system 4-10
- Folding key immobilizer system 4-10
- Smart key immobilizer system 4-11
Theft-alarm system 4-12
- Armed stage 4-12
- Theft-alarm stage 4-13
- Disarmed stage 4-13
Door locks 4-14
- With the smart key 4-14
- With the mechanical key 4-15
- Operating door locks from inside the vehicle 4-16
- Door lock/unlock features 4-18
- Manual door lock switch 4-18
- Child-protector rear door lock 4-18
- In case of an emergency 4-19
- Rear Occupant Alert (ROA) System 4-19
Driver Position Memory System 4-20
- Storing memory positions 4-20
- recalling memory positions 4-21
- Driver position memory system reset 4-21
- Easy access function 4-21
Liftgate 4-22
- Opening the liftgate 4-22
- Closing the liftgate 4-23
- Emergency liftgate safety release 4-23
Power liftgate 4-25

--- Page 75 ---
4 Features of your vehicle
- Opening the liftgate 4-26
- Closing the liftgate 4-26
- Power liftgate non-opening conditions 4-27
- How to reset the power liftgate 4-28
- Power liftgate speed adjustment 4-28
- Power liftgate opening height setting 4-28
- Power liftgate opening height user setting 4-29
Smart Liftgate with Auto Open 4-29
- How to use the Smart Liftgate with Auto Open 4-29
- How to deactivate the Smart Liftgate with Auto Open
function using the smart key 4-31
- Detecting area 4-31
Windows 4-33
- Window opening and closing 4-34
- Power window lock button 4-36
Hoodhood 4-38
- Opening the hood 4-38
- Hood open warning 4-38
- Closing the hood 4-39
Fuel filler door 4-40
- Opening the fuel filer door 4-40
- Closing the fuel filer door 4-41
Panoramic sunroof 4-44
- Power sunshade 4-44
- Tilt open/close 4-45
- Slide open/close 4-45
- Automatic reversal 4-45
- Resetting the sunroof 4-46
- Sunroof open warning 4-47
Steering wheel 4-47
- Electric power steering (EPS) 4-47

--- Page 76 ---
Features of your vehicle
- Tilt & telescopic steering wheel 4-48
- Heated steering wheel 4-49
- Horn 4-50
Mirrors 4-50
- Inside rear view mirror 4-50
- Outside rear view mirror 4-59
Instrument cluster 4-61
- Full LCD cluster 4-62
- Adjusting instrument cluster ilumination 4-63
- Gauges 4-63
- Transmission shift indicator 4-66
LCD display 4-67
- LCD display modes 4-68
LCD displays 4-77
- Trip information (trip computer) 4-77
- AUTO STOP 4-79
- Digital speedometer 4-79
- Service mode 4-79
- LCD display messages 4-80
Warning and indicator lights 4-83
- Warning lights 4-83
- Indicator lights 4-89
Lighting 4-93
- Battery saver function 4-93
- Headlamp delay function 4-93
- Daytime Running Light (DRL) 4-94
- Lighting control 4-94
- Operating high beam 4-95
- Operating turn signals and lane change signals 4-96
- Operating front fog light 4-96
- High Beam Assist (HBA) 4-97

--- Page 77 ---
4 Features of your vehicle
Wipers and washers 4-99
- Auto control 4-100
- Operating windshield washers 4-101
- Operating rear window wiper and washer switch 4-102
- Heated washer nozzle 4-102
Welcome system 4-103
Interior lights 4-104
- Automatic turn off function 4-104
- Map lamp 4-104
- Room lamp 4-105
- Personal lamp 4-105
- Luggage room lamp 4-105
- Vanity mirror lamp 4-105
- Glove box lamp 4-106
Climate control system 4-106
- System operation 4-106
- Climate control air filter 4-108
- Air conditioning refrigerant label 4-108
- Checking the amount of air conditioner refrigerant and
compressor lubricant 4-109
Manual climate control system 4-110
- Heating and air conditioning 4-111
Automatic climate control system 4-115
- Using the infotainment/climate switchable controller control
panel (For Type B) 4-116
- Heating and air conditioning automatically 4-117
- Heating and air conditioning manually 4-119
Windshield defrosting and defogging 4-124
- Defogging inside windshield 4-124
- Defrosting outside windshield 4-125
- Auto defogging system 4-126

--- Page 78 ---
Features of your vehicle
- Defroster 4-126
- Defogging logic 4-127
Front glass heater 4-128
Scheduled Ventilation Control 4-129
Storage compartment 4-129
- Center console storage 4-129
- Glove box 4-130
Interior features 4-130
- Cup holder 4-130
- Seat warmer 4-131
- Air ventilation seat 4-132
- Sun visor 4-133
- USB charger 4-133
- Power outlet 4-134
- Wireless smart phone charging system 4-135
- Coat hook 4-138
- Floor mat anchors 4-138
- Luggage net holder 4-139
- Cargo security screen 4-139
Exterior features 4-140
- Roof rack 4-140
Infotainment system 4-142
- Using the infotainment/climate switchable controller 4-142
- Audio system 4-142
Declaration of Conformity 4-146

--- Page 79 ---
Features of your vehicle
Features of your vehicle
Keys
WARNING
Never leave a vehicle key in your vehicle
with unsupervised children. Children
copy adults and play with items in a
vehicle. They could use the key to turn
the vehicle on, operate power windows
or other controls, or even make the vehicle move, which could result in serious
bodily injury or death.
Record your key number
The key code number
is stamped on the key
code tag attached to
the key set. Should
you lose your keys, this number will
enable an authorized Kia dealer to duplicate the keys easily. Remove the key
code tag and store it in a safe place.
Also, record the key code number and
keep it in a safe and handy place, but
not in the vehicle.
WARNING
Aftermarket keys
Use only Kia original parts for the ignition key in your vehicle. If an aftermarket
key is used, the ignition switch or
ENGINE START/STOP button may not
return to ON after START. If this happens, the starter will continue to operate
causing possible fire due to excessive
current in the wiring.
Keys
Battery replacement
The smart key uses a 3 volt lithium battery which will normally last for several
years, but may last less.
If you are unsure how to use or replace
the battery, contact an authorized Kia
dealer.
1. Detach mechanical key from your
remote key or smart key.
2.Pry open the key cover.
3.Replace the remote key or smart key
cover with a new battery. (CR2032)
When replacing the battery, make
sure the battery position is correct.
4.Install the battery in the reverse order
of removal.
For remote key or smart key replacement, visit an authorized Kia dealer.
The remote key or smart key is designed
to give you years of trouble-free use,
however it can malfunction if exposed to
moisture or static electricity. If you are
unsure how to use or replace the battery, contact an authorized Kia dealer.
Using the wrong battery can cause
smart key to malfunction. Be sure to use
the correct battery.
An inappropriately disposed
battery can be harmful to the
environment and human
health. Dispose the battery
according to your local law(s) or regulation.

--- Page 80 ---
Features of your vehicle Keys
WARNING
Using the remote key (if
equipped)
THIS PRODUCT CONTAINS A BUT-
TON BATTERY
If swalowed, a lithium button battery
can cause severe or fatal injuries within
2 hours.
Keep batteries out of reach of children.
If you think batteries may have been
swalowed or placed inside any part of
the body, seek immediate medical attention.
Type A
Type B
CAUTION
Remote key or smart key damage
The smart key can malfunction if
dropped, exposed to moisture, static
electricity, heat or direct sunlight.
This device complies with Part 15
of the FCC rules.
Operation is subject to the following two
conditions:
1. This device may not cause harmful
interference.
2.This device must accept any interference received, including interference
that may cause undesired operation.
Smart key (if equipped)
With a smart key, you can lock or unlock
a door and even start the engine without
inserting the key.
Type A
NOTICE
Changes or modifications not expressly
approved by the party responsible for
compliance could void the user's authority to operate the equipment. If the
smart key is inoperative due to changes
or modifications not expressly approved
by the party responsible for compliance,
it will not be covered by your manufacturer's vehicle warranty.
Type B

--- Page 81 ---
Features of your vehicle
Lock (1)All doors are locked if the lock button is
pressed. If all doors are closed, the hazard warning lights will blink and the
chime will sound once to indicate that al
doors are locked.
Also, if the lock button is pressed once
more within 4 seconds, the hazard warning lights will blink and the chime will
sound once to confirm that the door is
locked.
However, if any door remains open, the
hazard warning lights (and/or the chime)
will not operate. But if all doors are
closed after the lock button is pressed,
the hazard warning lights will blink once.
Unlock (2)
The driver's door is unlocked if the
unlock button is pressed once. The hazard warning lights will blink twice to indicate that the driver's door is unlocked.All doors are unlocked if the unlock button is pressed once more within 4 seconds. The hazard warning lights will
blink and the chime will sound twice
again to indicate that all doors are
unlocked. After pressing this button, the
doors will lock automatically unless you
open any door within 30 seconds.
If you attempt to lock or unlock the door
by pressing the door lock/unlock button
in any of the following states, the door
will not be locked or unlocked.
- When you want to lock or unlock the
door in the ACC or ON state.
- When you want to lock a door in a car
with one or more doors open.
Depending on the vehicle, the driver can
turn off or set the 2-press unlock setting
function. For more information, refer to
"User settings mode" on page 4-70
Keys
NOTICE
If the smart key is inoperative due to
exposure to water or liquids, it will not be
covered by your manufacturer's vehicle
warranty.
Liftgate open (3)
The liftgate is opened if the button is
pressed for more than 1 second.
Panic alarm (4)
The horn sounds and the hazard warning lights blink for about 30 seconds if
this button is pressed for more than 0.5
seconds. To stop the horn and lights,
press any button on the transmitter.
Remote start (5) (if equipped)
You can start the vehicle using the
remote start button (5) of the smart key.
To start the vehicle remotely:
- Lock the doors by pressing the door
lock button (1) within 32 ft (10 m) distance from the vehicle.
- Press the remote start button for over
2 seconds within 4 seconds after locking the doors.
Press the remote start button once to
turn off the vehicle.
If no further action for operating/driving
the vehicle is taken, the vehicle will be
turned off 10 minutes after starting the
vehicle remotely.
While remote starting, the hazard warning lights blink 3 times. If you want to
stop the engine, press the Remote Start
button (5) again.

--- Page 82 ---
Features of your vehicle Keys
Start-up
You can start the vehicle without inserting the key.
* For more information, refer to "ENGINE
START/STOP button (if equipped)" on
page 5-8.
Mechanical key
If the smart key does not operate normally, you can lock or unlock the door
by using the mechanical key.
by normal operation of your cell phone
or smart phone. This is especially
important when the phone is active,
such as when making cals, receiving
cals, text messaging, and/or sending/
receiving emails. Avoid placing the smart
key and your cell phone or smart phone
in the same pants or jacket pocket and
maintain adequate distance between the
two devices.
CAUTION
Transmitter
Keep the transmitter away from water or
any liquid, as it can become damaged
and not function properly.
NOTICE
To remove the mechanical key, press
and hold the release button (1) and
remove the mechanical key (2).
To reinstall the mechanical key, put the
key into the hole and push it until a
"click" sound is heard.
Smart key precautions
The smart key may not work if any of
the following occur:
- The smart key is close to a radio
transmitter such as a radio station or
an airport which can interfere with
normal operation of the smart key.
- The smart key is near a mobile twoway radio system or a celular phone.
- Another vehicle's smart key is being
operated close to your vehicle.
When the smart key does not work correctly, open and close the door with the
mechanical key and contact an authorized Kia dealer.
If the smart key is in close proximity to
your cell phone or smart phone, the signal from the smart key could be blocked
- Loss of the smart key
- A maximum of 2 smart keys can be
registered to a single vehicle.
If you happen to lose your smart
key, you will not be able to start the
vehicle. You should immediately
take the vehicle and remaining key
to your authorized Kia dealer (tow
the vehicle, if necessary) to protect
it from potential theft.
- If the smart key is inoperative due to
exposure to water or liquids, it will not
be covered by your manufacturer's
vehicle warranty.
- To prevent the electronic key from
becoming damaged by magnetic
fields, do not leave it near the following electrical appliances:
- TVs
- Personal computers
- Celular phones, cordless phones
and battery chargers
- Table lamps
- Induction cookers

--- Page 83 ---
Features of your vehicle
Immobilizer system
- If you have to leave the vehicle's key
with a parking attendant, remove the
mechanical key for your own use and
provide the attendant with the electronic key only.
- When bringing a smart key onto an
airplane, make sure you do not press
any button on the key while inside the
cabin. If you are carrying the key in
your bag etc., make sure that the buttons cannot be pressed accidentally. If
you press a button, the key may emit
radio waves that could interfere with
the operation of the aircraft.
Immobilizer system
Folding key immobilizer system
Your immobilizer system is comprised of
a small transponder in the ignition key
and electronic devices inside the vehicle.
With the immobilizer system, whenever
you insert your ignition key into the ignition switch and turn it to ON, it checks
and determines and verifies that the
ignition key is valid.
If the key is determined to be valid, the
engine will start.
If the key is determined to be invalid, the
engine will not start.
Deactivating the Folding Key
Immobilizer system
Insert the ignition key into the key cylinder and turn it to the ON position.
Activating the Folding Key Immobilizer system
Turn the ignition key to the OFF position.
The immobilizer system activates automatically. Without a valid ignition key for
your vehicle, the engine will not start.
Your Immobilizer password is a customer unique password and should be
kept confidential. Do not leave this number anywhere in your vehicle.
NOTICE
Keep each key separately in order to
avoid a starting malfunction.
NOTICE
In order to prevent theft of your vehicle,
do not leave spare keys anywhere in
your vehicle. Your immobilizer password
is a customer unique password should

--- Page 84 ---
Features of your vehicle be kept confidential. Do not leave this
number anywhere in your vehicle.
NOTICE
- Do not put metal accessories near the
ignition switch.
- Metal accessories may interrupt the
transponder signal and may prevent
the engine from being started.
NOTICE
If you need additional keys or lose your
keys, consult an authorized Kia dealer.
CAUTION
Immobilizer damage
Do not expose your immobilizer system
to moisture, static electricity or rough
handling. This may damage your immobilizer.
CAUTION
Immobilizer alterations
Do not change, alter or adjust the immobilizer system because it could cause the
immobilizer system to malfunction.
Smart key immobilizer system
The immobilizer system protects your
vehicle from theft. If an improperly
coded key (or other device) is used, the
vehicle's power system is disabled.
When the ENGINE START/STOP button
is placed in the ON position, the immobilizer system indicator should come on
briefly, then go off. If the indicator starts
to blink, the system does not recognize
the coding of the key.
Place the ENGINE START/STOP button
in the OFF position, then place the
Immobilizer system
ENGINE START/STOP button in the ON
position again.
In some circumstances, the vehicle may
not recognize your smart key if another
smart key device is nearby or a metal
object such as a key chain is causing
interference with the smart key.
If this occurs, your vehicle may not start.
Remove any metal objects or additional
keys near the smart key before attempting to start the vehicle again.
If the system repeatedly does not recognize the coding of the key, contact your
Kia dealer.
Do not attempt to alter this system or
add other devices to it. Electrical problems could result that may make your
vehicle inoperable.
Deactivating the Smart Key
Immobilizer system
Change the ENGINE START/STOP button to the ON position.
Activating the Smart Key Immobilizer system
Change the ENGINE START/STOP button to the OFF position. The immobilizer
system activates automatically. Without
a valid smart key for your vehicle, the
engine will not start.
NOTICE
When starting the vehicle, do not use the
key with other immobilizer keys around.
Otherwise, the vehicle may not start or
may stop soon after it starts. Keep each
key separate in order to avoid a starting
malfunction.

--- Page 85 ---
Features of your vehicle
NOTICE
If you need additional keys or lose your
keys, contact an authorized Kia dealer.
This device complies with Part 15
of the FCC rules.
Operation is subject to the following two
conditions:
1. This device may not cause harmful
interference.
2.This device must accept any interference received, including interference
that may cause undesired operation.
NOTICE
Changes or modifications not expressly
approved by the party responsible for
compliance could void the user's authority to operate the equipment. If the
smart key is inoperative due to changes
or modifications not expressly approved
by the party responsible for compliance,
it will not be covered by your manufacturer's vehicle warranty.
Theft-alarm system
Theft-alarm system
This system is designed to provide protection from unauthorized entry into the
vehicle.
This system is operated in three stages:
1. Armed stage
2.Theft-alarm stage
3.Disarmed stage
If triggered, the system provides an
audible alarm with blinking of the hazard warning lights.
CAUTION
Do not attempt to alter this system or
add other devices to it.
Armed stage
Using the smart key
Park the vehicle and stop the engine.
Arm the system as described below.
1. Turn off the engine.
2.Make sure that all doors, the hood
and liftgate are closed and latched.
3.Lock the doors by pressing the button
of the front outside door handle with
the smart key in your possession.
After completion of the steps above,
the hazard warning lights will operate
once to indicate that the system is

--- Page 86 ---
Features of your vehicle armed. If any door (or liftgate) or hood
remains open, the hazard warning
lights and the chime will not operate
and the theft-alarm will not arm. If al
doors and liftgate and hood are
closed after the lock button is
pressed, the hazard warning lights
blink once. The system can also be
armed by locking the doors with the
key from the front doors; however,
the hazard warning lights will not
blink using this method.
4.Lock the doors by pressing the lock
button on the smart key. After completion of the steps above, the hazard
warning lights will operate once to
indicate that the system is armed.
NOTICE
The theft-alarm system can be deactivated by an authorized Kia dealer.
If you want this feature, consult an
authorized Kia dealer.
NOTICE
Do not arm the system until all passengers have left the vehicle. If the system is
armed while a passenger(s) remains in
the vehicle, the alarm may be activated
when the remaining passenger(s) leaves
the vehicle. If any door (or liftgate) or
hood is opened within 30 seconds after
the system enters the armed stage, the
system will be disarmed to prevent
unnecessary alarm.
Theft-alarm stage
The alarm will be activated if any of the
following occurs while the system is
armed.
- A front or rear door is opened without
using the smart key.
Theft-alarm system
- The liftgate is opened without using
the smart key.
- The hood is opened.
The horn will sound and the hazard
warning lights will blink continuously for
approximately 27 seconds, and repeat
the horn 3 times unless the system is
disarmed. To turn off the system, unlock
the doors with the folding key or smart
key.
Disarmed stage
The system will be disarmed when:
Using the remote key
- The door unlock button is pressed.
- The engine is started.
- The vehicle is in the "ON" position for
30 seconds or more.
Using the smart key
- The door unlock button is pressed.
- The button of the front outside door is
pressed while carrying the smart key.
- The engine is started. (within 3 seconds)
After pressing the unlock button, the
hazard warning lights will blink and the
chime will sound twice (in smart key) to
indicate that the system is disarmed.
After pressing the unlock button, if any
door (or liftgate) is not opened within 30
seconds, the system will be rearmed.
NOTICE
- Avoid trying to start the engine while
the alarm is activated. The vehicle
starting motor is disabled during the
theft-alarm stage.
If the system is not disarmed with the
folding key, insert the key into the
ignition switch, turn the ignition switch

--- Page 87 ---
Features of your vehicle
to the ON position and wait for 30
seconds. Then the system will be disarmed.
- If you lose your keys, consult your
authorized Kia dealer.
CAUTION
Adjusting alarm system
Do not change, alter or adjust the theft
alarm system in your vehicle. Improper
installation of the alarm system could
damage the vehicle or cause the system
to malfunction.
NOTICE
Malfunctions caused by improper alterations, adjustments or modifications to
the theft-alarm system are not covered
by your vehicle manufacturer warranty.
Door locks
Door locks
Know how to use the door lock so that
you can lock or unlock the door if necessary.
With the smart key
Carrying the smart key, you may lock
and unlock the vehicle doors (and liftgate). Also, you may start the engine.
Refer to the following for more details.
Locking
Pressing the button of the front driver
side door handles with all doors closed
and any door unlocked, locks all the
doors. If all doors and engine hood are
closed, the hazard warning lights will
blink once to indicate that all doors are
locked.
The button will only operate when the
smart key is within 28 ~ 40 inches (0.7 ~
1 m) from the driver side door handle. If
you want to make sure that a door has
locked or not, you should pull the driver
side door handle.
Even though you press the driver side
door handle buttons, the doors will not
lock and the chime will sound for 3 seconds if any of following occur:
- The smart key is in the vehicle.
- The ignition switch or ENGINE START/
STOP button is in the ACC or ON position.
- Any door except the liftgate is open.

--- Page 88 ---
Features of your vehicle Unlocking
Pressing the button of the front driver
side door handles with all doors closed
and locked, unlocks all the doors. The
hazard warning lights blink twice to indicate that all doors are unlocked.
The button will only operate when the
smart key is within 28 ~ 40 inches (0.7 ~
1 m) from the front driver side door handle.
When the smart key is recognized in the
area of 28 ~ 40 inches (0.7 ~ 1 m) from
the front driver side door handle, other
people can also open the door without
possession of the smart key.
After pressing the button, the doors will
lock automatically unless you open any
door within 30 seconds.
With the mechanical key
1. Pull out the door handle.
2.Press the lever (1) located inside the
bottom part of the cover with a key or
flat-head screwdriver.
3.Push out the cover (2) while pressing
the lever (only the driver's door can be
locked/unlocked).
4.Turn the key toward the rear of the
vehicle to unlock and toward the front
of the vehicle to lock. Only the driver's
door can be locked or unlocked.
- Doors can also be locked and
unlocked with the transmitter.
- Once the doors are unlocked, they
may be opened by pulling the door
handle.
Door locks
- When closing the door, push the door
by hand. Make sure the doors are
closed securely.
NOTICE
- When locking the door with a
mechanical key, be aware that only
the driver's door can be locked/
unlocked.
- To lock all doors, operate the central
lock switch inside the vehicle. Open
the car door using the inner handle,
then close the door and lock the
driver's door with a mechanical key.
- Refer to "Operating door locks from
inside the vehicle" on page 4-16 to
lock from inside the vehicle.
NOTICE
- Be careful not to lose or scratch the
cover when removing it.
- When the key cover freezes and does
not open, tap it lightly or indirectly
warm (hand temperature, etc.) it up.
- Do not apply excessive force to the
door and door handle. It may be damaged.
NOTICE
- In cold and wet climates, door lock
and door mechanisms may not work
properly due to freezing conditions.
- If the door is locked/unlocked multiple
times in rapid succession with either
the vehicle key or door lock switch,
the system may stop operating temporarily in order to protect the circuit
and prevent damage to system components.

--- Page 89 ---
Features of your vehicle
WARNING
- Securely close your door before you
begin driving. Failure to fuly close
your door may cause it to be opened
during vehicle operation.
- Keep your body out of the way of the
closing door to prevent injuries.
WARNING
Do not leave anyone in the vehicle while
it is very hot or cold outside. Vehicle interiors heat and cool very quickly. Do not
lock the vehicle from the outside when
there are passengers in the vehicle. Failure to follow these instructions could
lead to serious injury or death.
CAUTION
Do not unnecessarily open and close the
door repeatedly or with excessive force.
Such action can damage the vehicle
door.
NOTICE
Always place the ENGINE START/STOP
button in the OFF position, engage the
parking brake, close all windows, and
lock all doors when leaving your vehicle
unattended.
NOTICE
Always remove the ignition key, engage
the parking brake, close all windows,
and lock all doors when leaving your
vehicle unattended.
Door locks
Operating door locks from inside
the vehicle
You can operate door locks with the
door lock handle or central door lock
switch.
With the door handle
- Front door
If the inner door handle is puled when
the door is locked, the door will unlock
and open.
- Rear door
If the inner door handle is puled once
when the door is locked, the door will
unlock.
If the inner door handle is puled once
more, the door will open.
Door lock malfunction
If a power door lock ever fails to function
while you are in the vehicle, try one or
more of the following techniques to exit:
- Operate the door unlock feature
repeatedly (both electronic and manual) while simultaneously pulling on
the door handle.
- Operate the other door locks and handles, front and rear.
- Lower a front window and use the key
to unlock the door from outside.
- Move to the cargo area and open the
liftgate.

--- Page 90 ---
Features of your vehicle WARNING
Do not pull the inner door handle of
driver's (or passenger's) door while the
vehicle is moving. The door could open
resulting in serious injury or death.
With central door lock switch
Driver side
Passenger side
1. Door Lock
2.Door Unlock
3.Doors indicating light
Operate by pressing the central door
lock switch.
- To lock all vehicle doors, press the
central door lock switch (1) of driver
and passenger side.
- To unlock all vehicle doors, press central door unlock switch (2) of driver
and passenger side.
When all vehicle doors are locked, the
indicating lights (3) on the driver's door
and passenger's door will turn on. If any
door is unlocked, it would go off.
If any door is opened, the doors will not
lock even though the central door lock
switch is pressed.
Door locks
WARNING
Doors
- The doors should always be fuly
closed and locked while the vehicle is
in motion to prevent accidental opening of the door. Locked doors will also
discourage potential intruders when
the vehicle stops or slows down.
- Be careful when opening doors and
watch out for vehicles, motorcycles,
bicycles or pedestrians approaching
the vehicle in the path of the door.
Opening a door when something is
approaching can result in an accident
to cause vehicle damage or serious
injury.
NOTICE
Unlocked vehicles
Leaving your vehicle unlocked can
increase the risk of vehicle theft or any
possible criminal harm caused by someone hiding in your vehicle while you are
gone. Always remove the ignition key,
engage the parking brake, close all windows and lock all doors when leaving
your vehicle unattended.
WARNING
Unattended children, the elderly or
pets
An enclosed vehicle can become
extremely hot, causing death or severe
injury such as heatstroke to unattended
children, the elderly or pets who cannot
escape the vehicle. When left or trapped
in a hot vehicle, make sure to stay
hydrated and avoid sun exposure
through the vehicle's windshield. Furthermore, children might operate features of the vehicle that could injure
them, or they could encounter other

--- Page 91 ---
Features of your vehicle
harm, possibly from someone gaining
entry to the vehicle. Never leave children
or animals unattended in your vehicle.
Door lock/unlock features
The vehicle is equipped with door lock/
unlock features for the safety and convenience of passengers.
Impact sensing door unlock systemAll doors will automatically unlock when
an impact causes the air bags to deploy.
Speed sensing door lock systemAll doors will automatically lock after the
vehicle speed exceeds 10 mph (15 km/
h).
You can activate or deactivate the auto
door lock/unlock features in the vehicle.
Refer to "User settings mode" on page 4-
70.
Manual door lock switch
Child-protector rear door lock
The child safety lock is provided to help
prevent children from accidentally opening the rear doors from inside the vehicle.
Door locks
The rear door safety locks should be
used whenever children are in the vehicle.
The child safety lock is located on the
edge of each rear door. When the child
safety lock is in the lock position (1), the
rear door will not open if the inner door
handle is puled.
To lock the child safety lock, insert a
small flat blade tool into the hole and
turn it to the lock position.
To allow a rear door to be opened from
inside the vehicle, unlock the child safety
lock.
To open the rear door, pull the outside
door handle (2).
WARNING
Rear door locks
If children accidentally open the rear
doors while the vehicle is in motion, they
could fal out and be severely injured or
kiled. To prevent children from opening
the rear doors from the inside, the rear
door safety locks should be used whenever children are in the vehicle.

--- Page 92 ---
Features of your vehicle WARNING
- The system does not detect every
obstacle approaching the vehicle exit.
- The driver and passenger are responsible for the accident occurred while
exiting the vehicle. Always check the
surrounding before you exit the vehicle.
In case of an emergency
If the electrical power door lock switch is
not operating (e.g., dead car battery) the
only way to lock the door(s) is with the
mechanical key from the outside key
hole.
Doors without an outside key hole can
be locked as follows:
1. Open the door.
2.Insert the a small flat blade tool into
the emergency door lock hole and
turn the key to the lock position as
shown.
3.Close the door securely.
NOTICE
If the electrical power to door lock switch
is not operating (e.g., dead car battery)
and the liftgate is closed, you will not be
able to open the liftgate until power is
restored.
Door locks
Rear Occupant Alert (ROA) System
The Rear Occupant Alert (ROA) is provided to help prevent exiting the vehicle
with a rear passenger left in the vehicle.
- When you open the front door after
opening and closing the rear door and
turning off the engine, the "Check rear
seats" warning message appears on
the cluster.
A: Check rear seats
You can activate or deactivate the ROA
from the User Settings mode in the cluster LCD display. If your vehicle is
equipped with an infotainment system,
you can learn how to setup on the website via QR code in the infotainment
quick reference guide.
The option can be found under the following menu:
1. Press the MODE button ( ) several
times on the steering wheel until 'User
Settings' menu appears on the LCD.
2.Select 'Convenience → Rear Occupant
Alert' with the MOVE switch ( / )
and the OK button on the steering
wheel.
If your vehicle is equipped with the infotainment system, the option can be
found under the following menu:
1. Press the SETUP button of the infotainment system.
2.Press 'Vehicle → Convenience → Rear
Occupant Alert' on the infotainment
system screen.

--- Page 93 ---
Features of your vehicle
WARNING
The Rear Occupant Alert (ROA) system
uses the door opening and closing history to issue a reminder. It does not
actually detect objects or people in the
rear seats. Check the rear seat for occupants before leaving the vehicle. Failure
to do so can lead to serious injury or
death.
CAUTION
- The Rear Occupant Alert (ROA) system uses a rear door opened and
closed history.
- The history is reset after the driver
turns off ignition normally, exits the
vehicle and locks the door remotely.
So even if a rear door does not
reopen, the ROA system alert can
occur.
- For example, after the ROA system
alert occurs, if the driver does not lock
the door, and drives again, the alert
can occur.
Driver Position Memory System
Driver Position Memory System (if equipped)
The Driver Position Memory System is
provided to store and recal the following
memory settings with a simple button
operation.
- Driver's seat position
- Instrument panel ilumination intensity
WARNING
Never attempt to operate the driver
position memory system while the vehicle is moving.
This could result in loss of control, and
an accident causing death, serious
injury, or property damage.
NOTICE
- If the battery is disconnected, the
memory settings will be erased.
- If the Driver Position Memory System
does not operate normally, have the
system checked by an authorized Kia
dealer.
Storing memory positions
1. The ignition switch or ENGINE START/
STOP button is in the ON position.
2.Adjust the driver's seat position,
instrument panel ilumination intensity
to the desired position.
3.Press one of the memory buttons (1 or
2) for more than 1 second. The system
will beep twice.

--- Page 94 ---
Features of your vehicle 4."Settings 1 (or 2) saved" will appear on
the LCD display.
Recalling memory positions
1. The ignition switch or ENGINE START/
STOP button is in the ON position.
2.Press the desired memory button (1 or
2). The system will beep once, and
then the driver's seat position, instrument panel ilumination intensity will
automatically adjust to the stored
positions.
3."Settings 1 (or 2) applied" will appear
on the LCD display.
- While recalling the "1" memory position, pressing 1 button temporarily
stops the adjustment of the recaled
memory position. Pressing the 2 button recals the "2" memory position.
- While recalling the "2" memory position, pressing the SET or 2 button
temporarily stops the adjustment of
the recaled memory position. Pressing the 1 button recals the "1" memory
position.
- While recalling the stored positions,
pressing one of the control buttons
for the driver's seat, outside rear view
mirror, or instrument panel ilumination will cause the movement of that
component to stop and move in the
direction that the control button is
pressed.
Driver position memory system
reset
If the Driver position memory system
does not work properly, initialize the system as follows.
How to initialize:
1. Stop the vehicle and open the driver's
door with the ignition switch or
ENGINE START/STOP button in the
Driver Position Memory System
ON position and the vehicle shifted to
P (Park).
2.Pull the driver's seat forward as far as
possible and have the seatback
upright as much as possible using the
driver's seat forward/backward
adjustment and seatback angle
(recline) switches.
3.Push the SET button and seat forward
movement switch for 2 seconds
simultaneously.
Initialization in the process:
1. Initialization begins as the alarm
sounds.
2.The seat and seatback will automatically move backwards. The alarm
sound will continue while the system
is in operation.
3.Initialization will be complete after the
seat and seatback move to the center
with an alarm sound.
If, however, cases as follows occur, the
initialization process will come to a stop
and the alarm sound will stop as well.
- When pushing driving position memory system button
- When pushing driver's seat height
adjustment switch
- When shifting from P (Park) to other
positions
- When driving speed exceeds 2 mph (3
km/h)
- When the driver's door is closed
Easy access function
The system will move the driver's seat
automatically as follows:
With smart key system
- It will move the driver's seat rearward
when the ENGINE START/STOP button is in the OFF position and the
driver's door is opened.

--- Page 95 ---
Features of your vehicle
- It will move the driver's seat forward
when the vehicle is turned ON or the
driver's door is closed with the smart
key with you.
You can activate or deactivate the Easy
Access Function from the User Settings
Mode on the LCD display. For more
details, refer to "User settings mode" on
page 4-70. If your vehicle is equipped
with additional navigation, please refer
to the infotainment system manual separately supplied.
NOTICE
Upward/downward movement of the
seat may not work when passengers get
on/off the vehicle in order to prevent
foot injuries in certain places.
Liftgate
Liftgate
WARNING
Exhaust fumes
If you drive with the liftgate open, you
will draw dangerous exhaust fumes into
your vehicle which can cause serious
injury or death to vehicle occupants.
If you must drive with the liftgate open,
keep the air vents and all windows open
so that additional outside air comes into
the vehicle.
WARNING
Rear cargo area
Occupants should never ride in the rear
cargo area where no restraints are available. To avoid injury in the event of an
accident or sudden stops, occupants
should always be properly restrained.
Opening the liftgate
The liftgate is locked or unlocked when
all doors are locked or unlocked with the
key, smart key or central door lock/
unlock switch.
CAUTION
Liftgate lift
Make sure that you close the liftgate
before driving your vehicle. Possible
damage may occur to the liftgate gas
lifters and attached hardware if the liftgate is not closed prior to driving.

--- Page 96 ---
Features of your vehicle Liftgate
Closing the liftgate
- To close the liftgate, lower and push
down the liftgate firmly. Make sure
that the liftgate is securely latched.
WARNING
- The liftgate is locked or unlocked
when all doors are locked or unlocked
with the transmitter (or smart key) or
central door lock switch.
- If unlocked, the liftgate can be opened
by pressing the handle and pulling it
up.
- Once the liftgate is opened and then
closed, the liftgate locks automatically. (Al doors must be locked.)
Make sure your hands, feet and other
parts of your body are safely out of the
way before closing the liftgate.
WARNING
NOTICE
Exhaust fumes
The liftgate lid should be always kept
completely closed while the vehicle is in
motion. If it is left open or ajar, poisonous exhaust gases may enter the car
and serious ilness or death may result.
In cold and wet climates, door lock and
door mechanisms may not work properly due to freezing conditions.
CAUTION
WARNING
Make sure nothing is near the liftgate
latch and striker while closing the liftgate. It may damage the liftgate's latch.
The liftgate swings upward. Make sure
no objects or people are near the rear of
the vehicle when opening the liftgate.
Emergency liftgate safety release
Your vehicle is equipped with the emergency liftgate safety release lever
located on the bottom of the liftgate.
When someone is inadvertently locked
in the luggage compartment.

--- Page 97 ---
Features of your vehicle
The liftgate can be opened by doing as
follows:
1. Input the a small flat blade tool into
the hole.
2.Push the a small flat blade tool to the
right (1).
3.Push up the liftgate.
WARNING
- You and your passengers must be
aware of the location of the Emergency Liftgate Safety Release lever in
this vehicle and how to open the liftgate in case you are accidentally
locked in the liftgate.
- Never allow anyone to occupy the
cargo area of the vehicle. If the liftgate
is partially or totally latched and the
person is unable to get out, serious
injury or death could occur due to lack
of ventilation, exhaust fumes and
rapid heat buildup, or because of
exposure to cold weather conditions.
The cargo area is also a highly dangerous location in the event of a crash
because it is a part of the vehicle's
crush zone. It is not a protected occupant space.
- Your vehicle should be kept locked
and the Smart Key should be kept out
of the reach of children. Parents
should teach their children about the
dangers of playing in liftgates.
- Use the release lever for emergencies
only.
Liftgate
WARNING
- No one should be allowed to occupy
the cargo area of the vehicle at any
time. The cargo area is a very dangerous location in the event of a crash.
- Use the release lever for emergencies
only. Use with extreme caution, especially while the vehicle is in motion.
CAUTION
Make sure there are no people or
objects around the liftgate before opening or closing the liftgate. Wait until the
liftgate is open fuly and stopped before
loading or unloading cargo from the
vehicle.
WARNING
Do not grasp the part supporting the liftgate (gas lifter), as this may cause serious injury.

--- Page 98 ---
Features of your vehicle Power liftgate (if equipped)
1. Power liftgate open/close button
2.Power liftgate handle switch
3.Power liftgate close button
4.Power liftgate open/close button
NOTICE
If ignition switch or ENGINE START/
STOP button is ON position, the power
liftgate can operate when the gear is in P
(Park).
Power liftgate
NOTICE
Do not put heavy objects on the power
liftgate when you operate the power liftgate. Additional weight on liftgate could
cause damages to the system.
WARNING
Never leave children or animals unattended in your vehicle. Children or animals might operate the power liftgate
that could result in injury to themselves
or others, or damage the vehicle.
WARNING
Make sure that there are no people or
objects in the path of the power liftgate
(or smart liftgate) prior to use. Serious
injury, damage to the vehicle or damage
to surrounding objects may result if contact with the power liftgate (or smart liftgate) occurs.
- A: 27 inches (70 cm)
- B: 27 inches (70 cm)
CAUTION
Do not close or open the power liftgate
manually. This may cause damage to
the power liftgate. If it is necessary to
close or open the power liftgate manually when the battery is discharged or
disconnected, do not apply excessive
force.

--- Page 99 ---
Features of your vehicle
WARNING
Make sure there are no people or
objects around the liftgate before opening or closing the power liftgate. Wait
until the liftgate is open fuly and
stopped before loading or unloading
cargo from the vehicle.
Opening the liftgate
The power liftgate will open automatically by doing one of the followings:
- Press the power liftgate open button
on the key for approximately one second.
- For emergency stop while power liftgate operating, press the power liftgate open/close button shortly.
- Press the liftgate handle switch carrying the smart key with you.
If all the doors are unlocked, the liftgate can be opened without the smart
key.
Power liftgate
Closing the liftgate
The power liftgate will close automatically by doing one of the following:
- When the liftgate is opened, press and
hold the power liftgate open / close
button. The liftgate will close automatically and the warning chime will
sound.
- Press the power liftgate open/close
button until the liftgate is closed completely. If the liftgate open/close button is not pressed while closing,
power liftgate will stop operate and
warning chime will sound for approximately 5 seconds.

--- Page 100 ---
Features of your vehicle - For emergency stop while power liftgate operating, press the power liftgate open/close button shortly.
- Press the power liftgate close button
when the liftgate is opened.
The liftgate will close automatically.
Power liftgate non-opening conditions
The power liftgate will not open automatically, when the vehicle is moving
more than 2 mph (3 km/h).
NOTICE
The chime will sound continuously if you
drive over 2 mph (3 km/h) with the liftgate opened. Stop your vehicle immediately at a safe place and check if your
liftgate is opened.
CAUTION
Do not operate the power liftgate more
than 5 times continuously.
It may damage the power liftgate system. If the spindle is strained due to continuous operation, the chime will sound
3 times and the power liftgate will not
operate. At this time, stop operating the
liftgate and leave it for more than 1 minute.
NOTICE
- The power liftgate can be operated
when the engine is not running. However the power liftgate operation consumes large amounts of vehicle
Power liftgate
electric power. To prevent the battery
from being discharged, do not operate it excessively e.g.: more than
approximately 10 times repeatedly.
- To prevent the battery from being discharged, do not leave the power liftgate in the open position for a long
time.
- Do not modify or repair any part of
the power liftgate by yourself, visit an
authorized Kia dealer.
- When jacking up the vehicle to
change a tire or repair the vehicle, do
not operate the power liftgate. This
could cause the power liftgate to
operate improperly.
- In cold and wet climates, the power
liftgate may not work properly due to
freezing conditions.
Automatic reversal
During power opening and closing if the
power liftgate is blocked by an object or
part of the body, the power liftgate will
detect the resistance.
- If the resistance is detected while
opening the liftgate, it will stop and
move in the opposite direction.
- If the resistance is detected while closing the liftgate, it will stop and move in
the opposite direction.
However, if the resistance is weak such
as from an object that is thin or soft, or
the liftgate is near the latched position,
the automatic stop and reversal may not
detect the resistance. If the automatic
reversal feature operates continuously
more than twice during opening or closing operation, the power liftgate may
stop at that position. At this time, check
if there are no objects near the liftgate,
and operate the liftgate automatically
again.

--- Page 101 ---
Features of your vehicle
CAUTION
Never intentionally place any object or
part of your body in the path of the
power liftgate to make sure the automatic reversal operates.
NOTICE
Never operate power liftgate attached
with any heavy objects (ex. bicycles). It
could damage the power liftgate.
How to reset the power liftgate
If the battery has been discharged or
disconnected, or if the related fuse has
been replaced or disconnected, for the
power liftgate to operate normally, reset
the power liftgate as follow:
1. Make sure the gear is shifted to P
(Park) position.
2.Press and hold the Power liftgate
open/close button located inside the
liftgate.
And then press the power liftgate
outer handle switch for more than 3
seconds with pressing the power liftgate open/close button. The chime
will cound.
3.Close the liftgate manually.
4.Press the power liftgate open button
on the outside of the vehicle.
5.The liftgate will open and the chime
will sound.
6.If the liftgate is stopped before it is
fuly open, resetting will not proceed.
Wait until the liftgate is open fuly and
stopped.
If the power liftgate does not work properly after the above procedure, have the
system checked by an authorized Kia
dealer.
Power liftgate
NOTICE
If the power liftgate does not operate
normally, check again if the gear is in the
correct position.
Power liftgate speed adjustment
To adjust the power liftgate speed, go to
'Vehicle → Door → Power liftgate speed
→ Normal/Fast' within the instrument
cluster settings of the infotainment system.
- If power liftgate function turns off,
you can not adjust the power liftgate
speed.
- Initial speed of Power liftgate is set as
"Fast".
For more details, refer to "User settings
mode" on page 4-70.
Power liftgate opening height
setting
The driver may set the height of a fuly
opened liftgate by following the below
instruction.
The liftgate opening height can be
adjusted within the instrument cluster
settings or the infotainment system.
To adjust the power liftgate opening
height, go to 'Vehicle → Door → Power

--- Page 102 ---
Features of your vehicle Liftgate Opening Height → Level 1/Level
2/Level 3/Full Open/User Height Setting'
to adjust the vehicle's liftgate height.
Power liftgate opening height
user setting
The driver may set the height of a fuly
opened liftgate by following the below
instruction.
The liftgate opening height can be
adjusted within the instrument cluster
settings or the infotainment system.
To adjust the power liftgate opening
height, go to 'User Settings → Door →
Power Liftgate Opening Height → User
Height Setting' to adjust the vehicle's liftgate height.
follow this instruction to adjust the liftgate height:
1. Adjust the liftgate to the preferred
height.
2.Press the power liftgate close button
for approximately 3 seconds.
3.After the beep sound appears, the
setup is finished.
The initial setting for 'User Height Setting' is identical to 'Full Open'.
The liftgate will open to the height the
driver has set up.
Smart Liftgate with Auto Open
Smart Liftgate with Auto Open
(if equipped)
On a vehicle equipped with a smart key,
the liftgate can be opened using the
Smart Liftgate with Auto Open system.
How to use the Smart Liftgate
with Auto Open
The liftgate can be opened with notouch activation satisfying all the conditions below.
- After 15 seconds when all doors are
closed and locked
- Positioned in the detecting area for
more than 3 seconds.
NOTICE
The Smart Liftgate with Auto Open does
not operate when:
- The smart key is detected within 15
seconds after the doors are closed
and locked, and is continuously
detected.
- The smart key is detected within 15
seconds after the doors are closed
and locked, and 60 inches (1.5 m)
from the front door handles.
- A door is not locked or closed.
- The smart key is in the vehicle.
1.Setting
To activate the Smart Liftgate with
Auto Open, go to 'Vehicle → Door →
Smart Liftgate' on the LCD display.

--- Page 103 ---
Features of your vehicle
2.Detect and Alert
If you are positioned in the detecting
area (20 ~ 40 inches [50 ~ 100 cm]
behind the vehicle) carrying a smart
key, the hazard warning lights will
blink and chime will sound to alert you
the smart key has been detected and
the liftgate will open.
NOTICE
Do not approach the detecting area if
you do not want the liftgate to open. If
you have unintentionally entered the
detecting area and the hazard warning
lights and chime starts to operate, leave
the detecting area with the smart key.
The liftgate will stay closed.
3.Automatic opening
The hazard warning lights will blink
and chime 6 times and then the liftgate will open.
WARNING
- Make sure you close the liftgate
before driving your vehicle.
- Make sure there are no people or
objects around the liftgate before
opening or closing the liftgate.
Smart Liftgate with Auto Open
- Make sure objects in the liftgate do
not come out when opening the liftgate on a slope. It may cause serious
injury.
- Make sure to deactivate the Smart
Liftgate with Auto Open when washing your vehicle. Otherwise, the liftgate may open inadvertently.
- The key should be kept out of reach
of children. Children may inadvertently open the Smart Liftgate with
Auto Open while playing around the
rear area of the vehicle.
CAUTION
Liftgate lift
Make certain that you close the liftgate
before driving your vehicle. Possible
damage may occur to the liftgate gas
lifters and attached hardware if the liftgate is not closed prior to driving.

--- Page 104 ---
Features of your vehicle How to deactivate the Smart Liftgate with Auto Open function
using the smart key
1. Door lock
2.Door unlock
3.Liftgate open
4.Panic button
5.Remote start
If you press any button of the smart key
during the Detect and Alert stage, the
Smart Liftgate with Auto Open function
will be deactivated.
Make sure to be aware of how to deactivate the Smart Liftgate with Auto Open
function for emergency situations.
NOTICE
- If you press the door unlock button
(2), the Smart Liftgate with Auto Open
function will be deactivated temporarily. But, if you do not open any door
for 30 seconds, the Smart Liftgate
with Auto Open function will be activated again.
- If you press the liftgate open button
(3) for more than 1 second, the liftgate
opens.
- If you press the door lock button (1) or
liftgate open button (3) when the
Smart Liftgate with Auto Open function is not in the Detect and Alert
stage, the Smart Liftgate with Auto
Open function will not be deactivated.
- In case you have deactivated the
Smart Liftgate with Auto Open func-
Smart Liftgate with Auto Open
tion by pressing the smart key button
and opened a door, the Smart Liftgate
with Auto Open function can be activated again by closing and locking al
doors.
Detecting area
- The Smart Liftgate with Auto Open
operates with a welcome alert if the
smart key is detected within 20 ~ 40
inches (50 ~ 100 cm) from the liftgate.
- The alert stops at once if the smart
key is positioned outside the detecting
area during the Detect and Alert
stage.
NOTICE
- The Smart Liftgate with Auto Open
function will not work if any of the following occurs:
- The smart key is close to a radio
transmitter such as a radio station
or an airport which can interfere
with normal operation of the transmitter.
- The smart key is near a mobile two
way radio system or a celular
phone.
- Another vehicle's smart key is being
operated close to your vehicle.

--- Page 105 ---
negO otuA ntiw etsetti treme

Features of your vehicle
increase when:
cle.
4- - 32
• The detecting range may decrease or
- One side of the tire is raised to
replace a tire or to inspect the vehi-
- The vehicle is slantingly parked on
a slope or unpaved road, etc.
Smart Liftgate with Auto Open

--- Page 106 ---
zwobniW

Features of your vehicle
Windows
a switch.
1. Driver's door power window switch
2. Front passenger's door power window switch
3. Rear door (left) power window switch
4. Rear door (right) power window switch
5. Power window lock switch
The doors of this vehicle are equipped with power windows that can be operated by
Windows

--- Page 107 ---
Features of your vehicle
NOTICE
In cold and wet climates, power windows
may not work properly due to freezing
conditions.
The ignition switch or ENGINE START/
STOP button must be in the ON position
for power windows to operate.
Each door has a power window switch
that controls the door's window. The
driver has a power window lock button
which can block the operation of rear
passenger windows. The power windows
can be operated for approximately 3
minutes after ignition switch or ENGINE
START/STOP button turned to the ACC
or LOCK position. However, if the front
doors are opened, the power windows
cannot be operated even within the 3
minutes period.
The driver's door has a master power
window switch that controls all the windows in the vehicle.
If the window cannot be closed because
it is blocked by objects, remove the
objects and close the window.
NOTICE
While driving with the rear windows
down or with the sunroof (if equipped) in
an open (or partially open position), your
vehicle may demonstrate a wind buffeting or pulsation noise. This noise is a
normal occurrence and can be reduced
or eliminated by taking the following
actions. If the noise occurs with one or
both of the rear windows down, partially
lower both front windows approximately
1 inches (2.5 cm) If you experience the
noise with the sunroof open, slightly
reduce the size of the sunroof opening.
Windows
CAUTION
Do not install any accessories in the
vehicle that extend into the open window area. Such objects will impact the
proper function of the Automatic reversal "jam protection" feature.
NOTICE
If you press the one-touch window button for micro adjustment, the glass will
go down to a specific location to
improve your convenience.
Window opening and closing
You can open and close windows using
the power window switch.
Type A
To open or close a window, press down
or pull up the front portion of the corresponding switch to the first detent position (1).
Type B - Auto up/down window
(if equipped)
Pressing or pulling up the power window
switch momentarily to the second detent

--- Page 108 ---
Features of your vehicle Windows
position (2) completely lowers or raises
the window even when the switch is
released. To stop the window at the
desired position while the window is in
operation, pull up or press down and
release the switch.
upward movement then lower approximately 1 inch (2.5 cm).
And if the power window switch is puled
up continuously again within 5 seconds
after the window is lowered by the automatic window reversal feature, the automatic window reversal will not operate.
To reset the power windows
If the power window does not operate
normally, the automatic power window
system must be reset as follows:
1. Turn the ignition switch or ENGINE
START/STOP button to the ON position.
2.Close the window and continue pulling up the power window switch for at
least 1 second after the window is
completely closed.
Automatic reversal (if equipped)
NOTICE
The automatic reverse feature for the
window is only active when the "auto up"
feature is used by fuly pulling up the
switch. The automatic reverse feature
will not operate if the window is raised
using the halfway position on the power
window switch.
WARNING
Always check for obstructions before
raising any window to avoid injuries or
vehicle damage. If an object less than
0.16 of an inch (4 mm) in diameter is
caught between the window glass and
the upper window channel, the automatic reverse window may not detect
the resistance and will not stop and
reverse direction.
WARNING
The automatic reverse feature doesn't
activate while resetting the power window system. Make sure body parts or
other objects are safely out of the way
before closing the windows to avoid injuries.
If the upward movement of the window
is blocked by an object or part of the
body, the window will detect the resistance and will stop upward movement.
The window will then lower approximately 11.8 inches (30 cm) to allow the
object to be cleared.
If the window detects the resistance
while the power window switch is puled
up continuously, the window will stop
CAUTION
Do not install any accessories in the
vehicle that extend into the open window area. Such objects could prevent

--- Page 109 ---
Features of your vehicle
the automatic reverse feature from
functioning.
Power window lock button
The driver can disable the power window switches on the rear passengers'
doors by pressing the power window
lock button to the lock position
(pressed).
When the power window lock button is
pressed:
- The driver's master control can operate all passengers' power windows.
- The front passenger's control can
operate the front passenger's power
window.
- The rear passengers' control cannot
operate the rear passenger's power
window.
CAUTION
- To prevent possible damage to the
power window system, do not open or
close two windows or more at the
same time. This will also ensure the
longevity of the fuse.
- Never try to operate the main switch
on the driver's door and the individual
door window switch in opposite directions at the same time. If this is done,
the window will stop and cannot be
opened or closed.
Windows
WARNING
Windows
- NEVER leave the keys in your vehicle
with unsupervised children, when the
engine is running.
- NEVER leave any child unattended in
the vehicle. Even very young children
may inadvertently cause the vehicle
to move, entangle themselves in the
windows, or otherwise injure themselves or others.
- Always double check to make sure al
arms, hands, head and other obstructions are safely out of the way before
closing a window.
- Do not allow children play with the
power windows. Keep the driver's
door power window lock button in the
LOCK position (pressed). SERIOUS
INJURY can result from unintentional
window operation by the child.
- Do not extend heads or any limbs outside the window while the vehicle is in
motion.

--- Page 110 ---
Features of your vehicle Windows
Remote window opening (if
equipped)
- Be careful when using the remote
window opening function, as the
doors will be unlocked.
If Auto window down function (safety
window function) is equipped, you can
still control the corresponding windows
movement with engine turned off.
Press the Door Unlock button (1) for
more than 3 seconds. The window
moves down after the doors are
unlocked, as long as you press the door
unlock button (1). The window movement stops, when you release the door
unlock button (1).
* Remote window opening requires the
automatic power window down for al
seats to be applied.
CAUTION
- If you stay on the function after operating the Remote window opening
function, it is likely to cause a theft. In
addition, please use caution there
might be a malfunction due to the
inflow of water while raining.
- The remote window opening function
may abruptly stop, when you move
away from your vehicle during operation. Stay in close proximity from your
vehicle, while monitoring the window
movement.
- One of the windows may stop operating, when the window is interrupted
by certain force. However, the other
windows will keep operating. Thus,
you should make sure that all windows are opened.

--- Page 111 ---
Features of your vehicle
Hoodhood
The hood serves as a cover for the
engine compartment.
Open the hood if maintenance work
needs to be performed in the engine
compartment or if you need to look at
the compartment.
Opening the hood
1. Pull the release lever to unlatch the
hood. The hood should pop open
slightly.
2.Go to the front of the vehicle, raise the
hood slightly, push the secondary
hood release lever (1) to the left and
lift the hood (2).
3.Pull out the support rod.
Hoodhood
4.Hold the hood opened with the support rod.
WARNING
Support rod
- After opening the hood, the support
rod must be inserted completely into
the hole provided to keep the hood up
and to prevent the hood from faling
and possibly injuring someone.
- If the engine is hot, grab the support
rod by the area wrapped in rubber to
prevent burns.
Hood open warning
The hood warning message will appear
on the LCD display when hood is open.
The warning chime will operate when
the vehicle is being driven at or above 2
mph (3 km/h) with the hood open.

--- Page 112 ---
Features of your vehicle Hoodhood
Closing the hood
partment. Doing so may cause a heatinduced fire.
WARNING
Unsecured hood
Always double check to be sure that the
hood is firmly latched before driving
away. If it is not latched, the hood could
fly open while the vehicle is being driven,
causing a total loss of visibility, which
may result in an accident.
1. Before closing the hood, check the
following:
- Al filer caps in the engine compartment must be correctly
installed.
- Gloves, rags or any other combustible material must be removed from
the engine compartment.
2.Lower the hood until it is about 12 in.
(30 cm) above the closed position and
let it drop. Make sure that it locks into
place.
3.Check that the hood has engaged
properly.
- If the hood can be raise slightly, it is
not properly engaged.
- Open it again and close it with a little more force.
CAUTION
Hood obstruction
Before closing the hood, ensure that al
obstructions are removed from the hood
opening. Closing the hood with an
obstruction present in the hood opening
may result in severe personal injury or
property damage.
WARNING
Fire risk
Do not leave gloves, rags or any other
combustible material in the motor com-

--- Page 113 ---
Features of your vehicle
Fuel filler door
The vehicle's fuel filer door must be
opened and closed by hand from outside the vehicle.
Opening the fuel filler door
To unlock fuel filer door:
- Press the unlock button on your smart
key
- Press the Central Door unlock button
on armrest trim of driver's door
- Pull the driver's inside door handle
outward
1. Turn the engine off.
2.Ensure the driver's door is unlocked
for unlocking fuel filer door.
3.Press the rear center edge of fuel filer
door.
4.Pull the fuel filer door (1) out to fuly
open.
5.To remove the fuel tank cap (2), turn it
counterclockwise. You may hear a
hissing noise as the pressure inside
the tank equalizes.
6.Place the cap on the fuel filer door.
Fuel filler door
NOTICE
The fuel filer door will unlock when
Driver's door is unlocked
To unlock fuel filer door:
- Press the unlock button on your smart
key
- Press the Central Door unlock button
on armrest trim of driver's door
- Pull the driver's inside door handle
outward
The fuel filer door will lock when al
doors are locked
To lock fuel filer door:
- Press the lock button on your smart
key
- Press the Central Door lock button on
armrest trim of driver's door
※ Al doors will automatically lock after
the vehicle speed exceeds 9.3 mph
(15km/h) Fuel door is also locked when
vehicle speed exceeds 9.3 mph (15km/h)
CAUTION
Before refueling, be sure to check what
type of fuel is used for your vehicle.
If you put diesel or ethanol fuel into a
gasoline-powered vehicle, it may affect
the fuel system and cause serious damage to the vehicle.
NOTICE
If the fuel filer door does not open
because ice has formed around it, tap
lightly or push on the door to break the
ice and release the door. Do not pry on
the door. If necessary, spray around the
door with an approved de-icer fluid (do
not use radiator anti-freeze) or move the
vehicle to a warm place and allow the ice
to melt.

--- Page 114 ---
Features of your vehicle Closing the fuel filler door
To lock fuel filer door:
- Press the lock button on your smart
key
- Press the Central Door lock button on
armrest trim of driver's door
* Al doors will automatically lock after
the vehicle speed exceeds 9.3 mph (15
km/h). Fuel lid is also locked when
vehicle speed exceeds 9.3 mph (15
km/h)
1. To install the fuel tank cap, turn it
clockwise until it "Clicks".
2.Close the fuel filer door by pressing
rear center edge of the fuel filer door.
NOTICE
Press the vehicle's fuel door to LOCK
position when the fuel filer door is completely closed in order to lock the fuel
filer door.
If the fuel filer door is not completely
closed, the fuel filer door will not be
locked.
WARNING
Refueling
Always remove the fuel cap carefuly
and slowly. If the cap is venting fuel or if
you hear a hissing sound, wait until the
condition stops before completely
removing the cap.
If pressurized fuel sprays out, it can
cover your clothes or skin and subject
you to the risk of fire and burns.
NOTICE
When refueling on unlevel ground, the
fuel gauge may not point to the F position. It is not a malfunction. If you move
Fuel filler door
your vehicle to a level ground, the fuel
gauge will move to the full position.
NOTICE
Tighten the cap until it clicks one time,
otherwise, the engine warning indicator
light will appear.
CAUTION
Keep the door into LOCK position when
the vehicle is being washed (i.e. high
pressure washer, automatic car washer,
etc.)
WARNING
Always tighten your fuel cap before you
leave the fuel station. Failure to securely
install your fuel cap can lead to fuel spillage in an accident and increase fire risk.
WARNING
Fire/explosion risk
Read and follow all warnings posted at
the gas station facility. Failure to follow
all warnings will result in severe personal
injury, severe burns or death due to fire
or explosion.
WARNING
Static electricity
- Before touching the fuel nozzle, you
should eliminate potentially dangerous static electricity discharge by
touching another metal part of the
vehicle, a safe distance away from the
fuel filer neck, nozzle, or other gas
source.
- Do not get back into a vehicle once
you have begun refueling since you
can generate static electricity by

--- Page 115 ---
Features of your vehicle
touching, rubbing or sliding against
any item or fabric (polyester, satin,
nylon, etc.) capable of producing
static electricity. Static electricity discharge can ignite fuel vapors resulting
in rapid burning. If you must reenter
the vehicle, you should once again
eliminate potentially dangerous static
electricity discharge by touching a
metal part of the vehicle, away from
the fuel filer neck, nozzle or other
gasoline source.
WARNING
Portable fuel container
When using an approved portable fuel
container, be sure to place the container
on the ground prior to refueling. Static
electricity discharge from the container
can ignite fuel vapors causing a fire.
Once refueling has begun, contact with
the vehicle should be maintained until
the filling is complete. Use only
approved portable plastic fuel containers designed to carry and store gasoline.
WARNING
Cell phone fires
Do not use celular phones while refueling. Electric current and/or electronic
interference from celular phones can
potentially ignite fuel vapors causing a
fire.
WARNING
Refueling & Vehicle fires
When refueling, always shut the engine
off. Sparks produced by electrical components related to the engine can ignite
fuel vapors causing a fire. Once refueling is complete, check to make sure the
Fuel filler door
filer cap and filer door are securely
closed, before starting the engine.
WARNING
Smoking
DO NOT use matches or a lighter and
DO NOT SMOKE or leave a lit cigarette
in your vehicle while at a gas station
especially during refueling. Automotive
fuel is highly flammable and can result
in fire when ignited.
Make sure to refuel your vehicle according to "Fuel requirements" on page 1-2.
If the fuel filer cap requires replacement, use only a genuine Kia cap or the
equivalent specified for your vehicle. An
incorrect fuel filer cap can result in a
serious malfunction of the fuel system or
emission control system.
CAUTION
Exterior paint
Do not spill fuel on the exterior surfaces
of the vehicle. Any type of fuel spiled on
painted surfaces may damage the paint.
WARNING
- Do not allow anyone that has not discharged static electricity from their
body to come close to an open fuel
tank.
- Do not inhale vaporized fuel.
WARNING
Risk of injury from fuel
Fuels are poisonous and harmful to your
health.
- Fuel contains substances that are
harmful if inhaled.

--- Page 116 ---
Features of your vehicle Fuel filler door
- Do not swalow fuel or let it come into
contact with skin, eyes or clothing.
- Do not inhale fuel vapors.
- Keep children away from fuel.
If you or other people come into contact
with fuel, observe the following:
- Immediately rinse fuel off your skin
with soap and water.
- If fuel comes into contact with your
eyes, immediately rinse them thoroughly with clean water. Seek medical
attention immediately.
- If you swalow fuel, seek medical
attention immediately. Do not induce
vomiting.
- Change immediately out of clothing
that has come into contact with fuel.
NOTICE
Do not switch on the ignition if you accidentally refuel with the wrong fuel. Otherwise, fuel can enter the fuel system.
Even small amounts of the wrong fuel
could result in damage to the fuel system and the engine. Have the system
serviced by an authorized Kia dealer.
NOTICE
Do not overfill the fuel tank
Do not overfil the fuel tank; otherwise
fuel may spill, causing harm to the environment and damaging the vehicle.
NOTICE
Damage caused by the wrong fuel
Fuel that does not conform to the
required quality can lead to increased
wear as well as damage to the engine
and exhaust system. Only use the fuel
recommended.
NOTICE
Damage caused by the wrong fuel
Vehicles with a gasoline engine:
Even small amounts of the wrong fuel
could result in damage to the fuel system, the engine and the emission control
system.
NOTICE
Do not use diesel or ethanol to refuel
vehicles with a gasoline engine.

--- Page 117 ---
Features of your vehicle
Panoramic sunroof (if
equipped)
If your vehicle is equipped with a sunroof, you can slide or tilt your sunroof
with the sunroof switch located on the
overhead console.
The sunroof can only be operated when
the ignition switch or ENGINE START/
STOP button is in the ON or START position.
The sunroof can be operated for
approximately 3 minutes after the ignition switch or ENGINE START/STOP button is in the ACC or LOCK/OFF position.
However, if the front door is open, the
sunroof cannot be operated even within
the 3 minute period.
WARNING
- Never adjust the sunroof or sunshade
while driving. This could result in loss
of control and an accident that may
cause injury, or property damage.
- Do not leave the engine running and
the key in your vehicle with unsupervised children. Unattended children
could operate the sunroof, which
could result in serious injury.
- Do not sit on the top of the vehicle. It
may cause injury or vehicle damage.
NOTICE
Do not operate the sunroof when roof
bars are installed on the vehicle or when
there is luggage on the roof.
Panoramic sunroof
Power sunshade
Use the power sunshade to block direct
sunlight coming through the sunroof
glass.
- Push the sunroof switch rearward to
the first detent position, the power
sunshade automatically slides open.
- Push the sunroof switch forward to
the first detent position, the power
sunshade automatically closes. However, if the sunroof glass is open, the
glass will close first.
To stop the power sunshade at any
point, push the sunroof switch in any
direction.
NOTICE
- Do not pull or push the power sunshade by hand as such action may
damage the power sunshade or cause
it to malfunction.
- Wrinkles formed on the power sunshades are normal due to material
characteristic.

--- Page 118 ---
Features of your vehicle Tilt open/close
- Push the sunroof switch upward, the
sunroof glass tilts open. However, if
the power sunshade is close, the sunshade will open first.
- Push the sunroof switch upward or
forward when the sunroof glass is tilt
opened, the sunroof glass automatically closes.
To stop the sunroof movement at any
point, push the sunroof switch in any
direction.
Slide open/close
- Push the sunroof switch rearward to
the first detent position, the sunroof
glass opens. However, if the power
sunshade is close, the power sunshade will open first.
Push the sunroof switch forward to
the first detent position, the sunroof
glass closes. However, if the sunroof
glass is close, the power sunshade will
close.
- Push the sunroof switch forward or
rearward to the second detent position, the power sunshade and sunroof
glass operate automatically (auto
slide feature).
Panoramic sunroof
To stop the sunroof movement at any
point, push the sunroof switch in any
direction.
Automatic reversal
If the power sunshade or sunroof glass
senses any obstacle while it is closing
automatically, it will reverse direction
then stop at a certain position.
The auto reverse function may not work
if an object thin or soft is caught
between the sliding power sunshade or
sunroof glass and sunroof sash.
WARNING
- Make sure heads, hands, arms or any
other body parts or objects are out of
the way before operating the sunroof.
Body parts or objects may get caught
causing injuries or vehicle damage.
- Never deliberately use your body
parts to test the automatic reversal
function. The power sunshade or sunroof glass may reverse direction, but
there is a risk of injury.
NOTICE
- Do not continue to push the sunroof
switch after the sunroof is fuly
opened, closed, or tilted. Damage to
the sunroof motor could occur.
- Continuous operations such as slide
open/close, tilt open/close, etc. may
cause the motor or sunroof system to
malfunction.

--- Page 119 ---
Features of your vehicle
- Regularly remove any accumulated
dust on the sunroof rail.
- Dust accumulated between the sunroof and roof panel can make noise
Open the sunroof and remove dust
regularly using a clean cloth.
- Do not try to open the sunroof when
the temperature is below freezing or
when the sunroof is covered with
snow or ice. The sunroof may not
work properly and may break if
opened by force.
- Do not open or drive with the sunroof
glass open immediately after rain or
washing the vehicle. Water may wet
the interior of the vehicle.
- Do not extend any luggage outside
the sunroof while driving. Vehicle
damage may occur if the vehicle suddenly stops.
WARNING
Do not extend your head, arms, body
parts or objects outside the sunroof
while driving. Injuries may occur if the
vehicle suddenly stops.
Panoramic sunroof
Resetting the sunroof
In some circumstances resetting the
sunroof operation may need to be performed. Some instances where resetting
the sunroof may be required include:
- When the 12-volt battery is either disconnected or discharged
- When the sunroof fuse is replaced
- If the sunroof one-touch AUTO OPEN/
CLOSE operation is not functioning
properly
Sunroof resetting procedure
1. It is recommended to perform the
reset procedure with the vehicle
engine running. Start the vehicle in P
(Park).
2.Make sure the power sunshade and
sunroof glass are in the fuly closed
position. If the power sunshade and
sunroof glass are open, push the
switch forward until the sunshade and
sunroof glass are fuly closed.
3.Release the switch when the power
sunshade and sunroof glass are fuly
closed.
4.Push the switch forward until the
power sunshade and sunroof glass
moves slightly. Then release the
switch.
5.Once again push and hold the sunroof switch forward until the sunroof
glass slides open and close. Do not
release the switch until the operation
is completed.

--- Page 120 ---
Features of your vehicle If you release the switch during operation, start the procedure again from
step 2.
NOTICE
If the sunroof does not reset when the
vehicle battery is disconnected or discharged, or the sunroof fuse is blown,
the sunroof may not operate normally.
Sunroof open warning
If the driver turns off the engine when
the sunroof is not fuly closed, the warning chime will sound for several seconds
and the sunroof open warning will
appear on the cluster LCD display.
Close the sunroof securely when leaving
your vehicle.
CAUTION
Make sure the sunroof is closed fuly
when leaving your vehicle. If the sunroof
is left open, rain or snow may wet the
interior of the vehicle. Also, leaving the
sunroof open when the vehicle is unattended may invite theft.
Steering wheel
Steering wheel
The steering wheel of this vehicle is
equipped with the Electric Power Steering (EPS) system.
Electric power steering (EPS)
Power steering uses the motor to assist
you in steering the vehicle.
If the engine is off or if the power steering system becomes inoperative, the
vehicle may still be steered, but it will
require increased steering effort.
The EPS is controlled by the power
steering control unit which senses the
steering wheel torque and vehicle speed
to command the motor.
The steering effort becomes heavier as
the vehicle's speed increases and
becomes lighter as the vehicle's speed
decreases for better control of the steering wheel.
Should you notice any change in the
effort required to steer during normal
vehicle operation, have the system
checked by an authorized Kia dealer.
NOTICE
The following symptoms may occur
during normal vehicle operation:
- When the ENGINE START/STOP button is the ON position, the steering
wheel enters normal operation mode
after diagnosing the Electric Power
Steering system (for about 3 seconds).
- A click noise may be heard from the
EPS relay after turning the ENGINE
START/STOP button is turned to the
ON or OFF position.
- If the steering wheel is operated when
the vehicle is not in motion or driven
at a low speed, you may hear some
noise.

--- Page 121 ---
Features of your vehicle
- If the Electric Power Steering system
does not operate normally, the warning light will appear or blink on the
instrument cluster. If the power assistance of steering fails, you will need to
use more force to steer.
- Operating the steering wheel at lower
temperatures may require more force
and accompany noise. However,
when the temperature increases, it
returns to normal.
- Take your vehicle to an authorized Kia
dealer and have the vehicle checked
as soon as possible.
- When the charging system warning
light comes on due to the low voltage
(when the alternator or battery does
not operate normally or malfunctions), the steering wheel may require
increased steering effort.
- When jump starting the vehicle after
battery discharge, the steering wheel
may not function properly. It is a temporary situation due to low battery
voltage, and upon stable battery
charging, the steering wheel will function normally again. Please move the
steering wheel around to make sure
the steering wheel is functioning
properly before driving the vehicle.
- The steering effort can suddenly
increase, if the operation of the EPS
system is stopped to prevent serious
accidents when EPS control unit
detects malfunction of the EPS system by self-diagnosis.
CAUTION
When you continuously operate the
steering wheel, the overcurrent protection device is activated and it requires
more force to operate the steering
wheel. However, this doesn't indicate a
Steering wheel
malfunction, and it works for your safety
and will return to normal after some
time.
CAUTION
If the Electric Power Steering (EPS) system does not work or an error occurs,
the warning light on the instrument
panel may be turned on or blink and it
may require more force to operate the
steering wheel. In this case, please hold
the steering wheel more tightly than
usual and operate with greater force.
And then immediately pull your vehicle
over to a safe place and have your vehicle inspected by an authorized Kia
dealer.
Tilt & telescopic steering wheel
A tilt and telescopic steering wheel
allows you to adjust the steering wheel
before you drive. You can also raise it to
give your legs more room when you exit
and enter the vehicle.
The steering wheel should be positioned
so that it is comfortable for you to drive,
while permitting you to see the instrument panel warning lights and gauges.
WARNING
Steering wheel adjustment
Never adjust the angle and height of the
steering wheel while driving. You may
lose control of the vehicle.

--- Page 122 ---
Features of your vehicle Adjusting steering wheel angle
and height
1. To change the steering wheel angle,
pull down the lock release lever (1).
2.Adjust the steering wheel to the
desired angle (2) and distance forward/back (3).
Move the steering wheel, so it points
toward your chest, not toward your
face. Make sure you can see the
instrument panel warning lights and
gauges. After adjusting, pull up the
lock.
3.Pull up the lock-release lever to lock
the steering wheel in place.
Push the steering wheel both up and
down to be certain it is locked in position.
4.Be sure to adjust the steering wheel to
the desired position before driving.
NOTICE
After adjustment, sometimes the lockrelease lever may not lock the steering
wheel.
It is not a malfunction. This occurs when
two gears engage. In this case, adjust
the steering wheel again and then lock
the steering wheel.
Steering wheel
CAUTION
While adjusting the steering wheel angle
and height, please do not push or pull it
hard since the fixture can be damaged.
Heated steering wheel (if
equipped)
When the ignition switch or ENGINE
START/STOP button is in the ON position, pressing the heated steering wheel
button warms the steering wheel. The
indicator on the button will appear.
To turn the heated steering wheel off,
press the button once again. The indicator on the button will turn off.
- The heated steering wheel defaults to
the OFF position whenever the ignition switch or ENGINE START/STOP
button is in the ON position.
NOTICE
The heated steering wheel will turn off
automatically approximately 30 minutes after the heated steering wheel is
turned on.
CAUTION
- Do not install any type of grip cover
for the steering wheel, it may impair
the function of the heated steering
wheel system.
- When cleaning the heated steering
wheel, do not use an organic solvent
such as paint thinner, benzene, alco-

--- Page 123 ---
Features of your vehicle
hol and gasoline. Doing so may damage the surface of the steering wheel.
- If the surface of the steering wheel is
damaged by a sharp object, damage
to the heated steering wheel components could occur.
WARNING
If the steering wheel becomes too warm,
turn the system off. The heated steering
wheel may cause burns even at low temperatures, especially if used for long
periods of time.
Horn
To sound the horn, press the area indicated by the horn symbol on your steering wheel (see illustration).
The horn will operate only when this
area is pressed. Check the horn regularly
to be sure it operates properly.
CAUTION
Do not strike the horn severely to operate it, or hit it with your fist. Do not press
on the horn with a sharp-pointed object.
Mirrors
Mirrors
This vehicle is equipped with inside and
outside rear view mirrors to provide
views of objects behind the vehicle.
Inside rear view mirror
Adjust the rear view mirror so that the
center view through the rear window is
seen. Make this adjustment before you
start driving.
Do not place objects in the rear seat or
cargo area which would interfere with
your vision out the rear window.
WARNING
Mirror adjustment
Do not adjust the rear view mirror while
the vehicle is moving. This could result in
loss of control.
NOTICE
Do not modify the inside mirror in any
manner, including installing a wide mirror. Doing so could result in injury during
an accident or deployment of the air
bag.
CAUTION
Cleaning mirror
When cleaning the mirror, use a paper
towel or similar material dampened with
glass cleaner. Do not spray glass cleaner
directly on the mirror. It may cause the
liquid cleaner to enter the mirror housing.

--- Page 124 ---
Features of your vehicle Mirrors
Day/night rear view mirror (if
equipped)
Electric chromic mirror (ECM)
with HomeLink씾 system (if
equipped)
Electric Chromic Mirror (ECM) is that
controls the glare from the headlamps of
the vehicles behind you in nighttime or
low light driving conditions.
The sensor mounted in the mirror
senses the light level around the vehicle,
and automatically controls the headlamp glare from the vehicles behind you.
When the engine is running, the glare is
automatically controlled by the sensor
mounted in the rear view mirror.
(A): Day, (B): Night
Make this adjustment before you start
driving and while the day/night lever is
in the day position (1).
Pull the day/night lever toward you (2) to
reduce the glare from the headlamps of
the vehicles behind you during night
driving.
Remember that you lose some rear view
clarity in the night position.
1. HomeLink Channel 1
2.HomeLink Channel 2
3.HomeLink Channel 3
4.Garage Door Opener Status Indicator:
Closing or Closed
5.HomeLink Operation Indicator
6.Garage Door Opener Status Indicator:
Opening or Opened
7.HomeLink User Interface Indicator
Your vehicle may be equipped with a
Gentex Automatic-Dimming Mirror with
an Integrated HomeLink씾 Wireless Control System.
During nighttime driving, this feature will
automatically detect and reduce rear
view mirror glare. The HomeLink씾 Universal Transceiver allows you to activate
your garage door(s), electric gate, home
lighting, etc.

--- Page 125 ---
Features of your vehicle
Automatic-Dimming Night Vision
SafetyTM (NVS씾) Mirror (if
equipped)
The NVS씾 Mirror automatically reduces
glare by monitoring light levels in the
front and the rear of the vehicle. Any
objects that obstructs the light sensor
will degrade the automatic dimming
control feature.
For more information regarding NVS씾
mirrors and other applications, please
refer to the Gentex website:
www.gentex.com
Your mirror will automatically dim upon
detecting glare from the vehicles traveling behind you.
The mirror defaults to the ON position
each time the vehicle is started.
Integrated HomeLink씾 Wireless
Control System
The HomeLink씾 Wireless Control System provides a convenient way to
replace up to three handheld radio-frequency (RF) transmitters used to activate compatible devices such as gate
operators, garage door openers, entry
door locks, security systems, and home
lighting.
NOTICE
Considering the Home Security when
the vehicle is parked outside the garage,
the HomeLink will ONLY work when the
ignition switch is in ACC position or ON
position.
CAUTION
Before programming HomeLink to a
garage door opener or gate operator,
make sure that people and objects are
out of the way of the device to prevent
potential harm or damage. When pro-
Mirrors
gramming a garage door opener, it is
advised to park outside of the garage.
Do not use HomeLink with any garage
door opener that lacks safety stop and
reverse features as required by U.S. federal safety standards (this includes any
garage door opener model manufactured before April 1, 1982). A garage
door that cannot detect an object signaling the door to stop and reverse - does
not meet current U.S. federal safety
standards. For more information, contact HomeLink at www.homelink.com,
or cal HomeLink customer support at 1-
800-355-3515.
It is also recommended that a new battery be replaced in the hand-held transmitter of the device being trained to
HomeLink for quicker training and accurate transmission of the radio frequency.
1. Programming HomeLink씾
The following steps show how to program HomeLink. If you have any questions or are having difficulty
programming your HomeLink buttons,
refer to the HomeLink website or cal the
HomeLink customer support tol-free
number. Do this, before going back to
the dealer who sold you the car.
- Visit the HomeLink website at:
www.homelink.com. Then at the top
of the page, choose your vehicle
make. Then watch the You Tube
video, and/or access additional website information.
- If you choose to access the website
via your cell phone, scan the QR code.

--- Page 126 ---
Features of your vehicle Mirrors
- Or, cal HomeLink customer support
at 1-800-355-3515
(Please have the vehicle make/model
AND the opener device make/model
readily available.)
1) Programming Preparation
1. When programming a garage door
opener, it is advised to park the vehicle outside of the garage.
2.It is recommended that a new battery
be placed in the hand-held transmitter of the device being programmed
to HomeLink for quicker training and
accurate transmission of the radiofrequency signal.
3.Place the ignition switch or ENGINE
START/STOP button to the ACC
(Accessory) position for programming of HomeLink.
2.Position the garage door opener
remote 1 - 3 inches (2 - 8 cm) away
from the HomeLink buttons.
2) Programming a New Home-
Link씾 Button
1. Press and release the HomeLink button ((1), (2) or (3)) you would like to
program. If successful, the HomeLink
indicator light (7) will flash orange
slowly. If the HomeLink indicator light
does not blink orange slowly, then
start over and perform the steps of
"Erasing Home- Link Buttons" section
again.
3.While the HomeLink indicator light (7)
is flashing orange, press and hold the
hand-held remote button. Continue
pressing the hand-held remote button
until the HomeLink indicator light (7)
light changes from orange to green.
You may now release the hand-held
remote button.
4.Wait until your garage door comes to
a complete stop, regardless of position, before proceeding to the next
steps.
5.Press and release the HomeLink button you are programming and
observe the indicator light.
- If the indicator light remains solid
green, your device should operate
when the HomeLink button is
pressed. At this point, if your device
operates, programming is complete.
- If the indicator light rapidly flashes
green, firmly press, hold for two
seconds and release the HomeLink
button up to three times in a row
slowly to complete the programming process. Do not press the

--- Page 127 ---
Features of your vehicle
HomeLink button rapidly. At this
point if your device operates, programming is complete. If the device
does not operate, continue with
step 6.
6.At the garage door opener motor,
(security gate motor, etc.) locate the
"Learn", "Smart", "Set" or "Program"
button. This can usually be found
where the hanging antenna wire is
attached to the motor-head unit (see
the device's manual to identify this
button). The name and color of the
button may vary by manufacturer.
* A ladder and/or second person may
simplify the following steps.
7.Firmly press and release the "Learn"
,"Smart", "Set" or "Program"" button.
You now have up to 30 seconds in
which to complete the next step.
8.Return to the vehicle and firmly press,
hold for two seconds and release, the
HomeLink button up to three times in
a row slowly. Do not press the Home-
Link button rapidly. As soon as you
see the garage door start to move,
stop pressing any buttons until a few
seconds after the garage door has
come to a complete stop, regardless
of position. At this point programming
is complete and your device should
Mirrors
operate when the HomeLink button is
pressed and released.
3) Two-Way Communication Programming (For select garage
door openers)
If your garage door opener has the
'myQ' logo on its side, your opener has
Two-Way Communication capability.
HomeLink has the capability to establish
Two-Way Communication with your
garage door opener. HomeLink can
receive and display "closing" or "opening" status messages from compatible
garage door openers. At any time,
HomeLink can also recal and display the
last recorded status communicated by
the garage door opener to indicate your
garage door being "closed" or "opened".
To check if your garage door opener is
compatible with this feature, refer to
www.homelink.com/compatible/Twoway-Communication. If your garage
door opener has this functionality, AND
the Two-Way Communication indicators
(4), (6) in the mirror appear while the
garage door is opening/closing, then no
further steps are needed. Two-Way
Communication Programming is already
complete. However, if your garage door
opener has this functionality, AND the
Two-Way Communication indicators (4),
(6) in the mirror DO NOT appear while
the garage door is opening/closing, use
the following instructions to enable this
functionality.
1. In your vehicle, press and hold the
programmed HomeLink button for 2
seconds, then release. Confirm that
the garage door is moving. AFTER it
stops, you will have one minute to
complete the following steps:

--- Page 128 ---
Features of your vehicle Mirrors
* A ladder and/or second person may
simplify the following steps.
2.On your garage door opener in your
garage, locate the "Learn" button
(usually near where the hanging
antenna wire is attached to the
garage door opener). If there is difficulty locating this button, refer to the
device's owner's manual.
3.Press and release the "Learn" button.
4.A light on your garage door opener
may flash, and your Two-Way Communication indicators (4), (6) in your
vehicle may flash, confirming completion of the process.
5.Return to the vehicle and firmly press
and release the programmed Home-
Link button to activate your garage
door. The Two-Way Communication
indicators (4), (6) flash in orange
when the door is moving. Do not
make any additional button presses
until AFTER the garage door has
come to a complete stop.
6.Your Two-Way Communication programming is now complete.
NOTICE
4) Canadian Programming
Canadian radio-frequency laws require
transmitter remote signals to "time-out"
(or quit) after a couple seconds of transmission, which may not be long enough
for HomeLink to pick up the signal
during programming.
If you live in Canada or you are having
difficulties programming a gate operator
or garage door opener by using the programming procedures, replace "Programming a New HomeLink Button"
step 3 with the following:
While the HomeLink indicator light (7) is
flashing orange, press and release
("cycle") your device's hand-held remote
every two seconds until the HomeLink
indicator light (7) changes from orange
to green. You may now release the
hand-held remote button. Then proceed
with "Programming a New HomeLink
Button" step 4.
2. Operating HomeLink씾
1) Operating HomeLink씾
1. Press and release the desired programmed HomeLink button (1, 2 or 3).
If your garage door opener has Two-
Way Communication functionality, it is
possible for HomeLink to stop functioning the garage door shortly after initial
programming, if the Two-Way Communication Programming wasn't properly
completed. This usually happens after
the first 10 times a programmed Home-
Link button is pressed. If you experience
this, completing the "Programming a
New HomeLink Button" and "Two-Way
Communication Programming" will
restore door operation.
NOTICE
The HomeLink indicator (7) should light
green, solid or flashing, and your programmed device should operate.
If your device does not operate, the
HomeLink programming was not suc-

--- Page 129 ---
Features of your vehicle
cessful, and you'l need to reprogram the
button.
2) Two-Way Communication Display Behavior
1. Press and release one of the programmed HomeLink buttons (1, 2 or
3)
2.The indicator (4) and (6) operates as
below, if your garage door opener has
Two-Way Communication functionality.
- If the indicator (4) flashes in
Orange, it indicates that the garage
door is "Closing".
- The indicator (4) turns solid green
once the garage door has closed.
- If the indicator (6) flashes in
Orange, it indicates that the garage
door is "Opening".
- The indicator (6) turns solid green
once the garage door has fuly
opened.
- If the indicator (4) or (6) does not
turn to green, it indicates that the
last status of garage door was not
received properly. The HomeLink
mirror tries to receive the last
Mirrors
known status of the garage door
for a few seconds.
3) Recalling Garage Door Status
HomeLink mirror with Two-Way Communication provides a way to view the
last stored message from the garage
door opener. In order to recal the last
known status of the last activated
device, press the buttons "1 and 2" OR "2
and 3" simultaneously.
- If the indicator (4) appears solid
Green, it indicates that the last activated device was properly "closed".
- If the indicator (6) appears solid
Green, it indicates that the last activated device was properly "open".
3. Erasing HomeLink씾 Buttons
1) Erasing and Reprogramming a
Single HomeLink씾 Button:
1. Press and hold the desired HomeLink
button you want to re-program. DO
NOT release the button.
2.The HomeLink indicator light (7) will
begin appear solid green. Release the
button as soon as the HomeLink indicator light (7) begins to flash orange,
usually about 20 seconds.
3.Proceed with the steps in the "Programming a New HomeLink Button"
section.
NOTICE
If you do not complete the re-programming of a new device to the button, it will
revert to the previously stored programming.

--- Page 130 ---
Features of your vehicle Mirrors
2) The following instructions will
erase ALL HomeLink씾 programming from ALL buttons:
compliance could void the user's authority to operate the device.
This equipment complies with FCC and
ISED radiation exposure limits set forth
for an uncontroled environment. End
Users must follow the specific operating
instructions for satisfying RF exposure
compliance. This transmitter must be at
least 20 cm from the user and must not
be co-located or operating in conjunction with any other antenna or transmitter.
1. Press and hold the buttons (1) and (3)
simultaneously
2.The HomeLink indicator light (7) will
appear solid Orange for about 10 seconds
3.Release the buttons once the Home-
Link indicator light (7) changes to
Green and flashes rapidly
4.Now all three HomeLink buttons (1),
(2) and (3) are cleared of any programming
Information
HomeLink and the HomeLink House
logo are registered trademarks of Gentex Corporation.
The myQ logo is a registered trademark
of The Chamberlain Group, Inc
FCC (USA) and ISED (Canada)
This device complies with FCC rules part
15 and Innovation, Science, and Economic Development Canada RSS-210.
Operation is subject to the following two
conditions: (1) This device may not cause
harmful interference, and (2) This device
must accept any interference that may
be received including interference that
may cause undesired operation. WARN-
ING: The transmitter has been tested
and complies with FCC and ISED rules.
Changes or modifications not expressly
approved by the party responsible for

--- Page 131 ---
nattu AniJlemoh

Features of your vehicle
HomeLink 5 Programing Flow
Chart
Programing Preparation
Follow 1 - 3
Does HomoLink
indicalor?) appent solld
green?
Yes
Yes DOEs GOO
operate(opening/closing/?
Go to Erasing and
Reprognmaing 고
Single HomeLink
Button
Programming a New HomeLink Button
Step 1 - 4
Check HomeLink
Endicaton A statusi
Solid Green of Flashing
Slop 5
No
Requires to press Lean
button at GOD
Step 6-1
Quick Training GDO
Does GOO
operate(opening closing)?
Step a
Yes
Complete Programming
Mirrors
• GDO: Garage Door Opener
Erasing and Reprogramming a Sing!
HomeLink Button
Smp 1 - 2
Does HomeLink
indicator 7| appear
Hashing green?
Yes
Does GOO
operate(opening/closing?
Yes
Check your Garage Door Opener
has Two-way Communication
functionality through
wwww.homeink com
• Call 1-300-355-3515
• GDO Manual
No
Two-Way Corumunication
funclionalty?
Two-Way Communication GOO
Yes Does GDO operale and Two-Way
Communication alcadorte (El
appeara orange while GOO is
opening/elosing?
No
Two-Way Communication
Step 1 - 4
Does GOO operate and Two-Way
Communication indicator(4), (6)
Yes appears orange while GDO is
opening/closing?

--- Page 132 ---
Features of your vehicle Mirrors
Outside rear view mirror
Your vehicle is equipped with both lefthand and right-hand outside rear view
mirrors.
Be sure to adjust the mirror angles
before driving.
The mirrors can be adjusted remotely
with the control levers or remote switch,
depending on the type of mirror control
installed. The mirror heads can be folded
back to prevent damage during an automatic car wash or when passing through
a narrow street.
WARNING
Do not adjust or fold the outside rear
view mirrors while the vehicle is moving.
This could result in loss of control, and
an accident which could cause DEATH,
SERIOUS INJURY, or property damage.
Adjusting the outside rear view
mirrors
The electric remote control mirror switch
allows you to adjust the position of the
left and right outside rear view mirrors.
NOTICE
Rear view mirrors
- The outside rear view mirror is convex. Objects seen in the mirror are
closer than they appear.
- Use your interior rear view mirror or
direct observation to determine the
actual distance of following vehicles
when changing lanes.
1. CAUTION
Adjusting the rear view mirrors:
Move the R or L switch (1) to select the
right side mirror or the left side mirror.
2.Press a corresponding point on the
mirror adjustment control (2) to position the selected mirror up, down, left
or right.
Do not scrape ice off the mirror face; this
may damage the surface of the glass. If
ice should restrict the movement of the
mirror, do not force the mirror for
adjustment. To remove ice, use a deicer
spray, or a sponge or soft cloth with
warm water.
CAUTION
CAUTION
- The mirrors stop moving when they
reach the maximum adjusting angles,
but the motor continues to operate
while the switch is pressed. Do not
press the switch longer than necessary, the motor may be damaged.
- Do not attempt to adjust the outside
rear view mirror glass by hand. You
may damage it.
If the mirror is jammed with ice, do not
adjust the mirror by force. Use an
approved spray de-icer (not radiator
antifreeze) to release the frozen mechanism or move the vehicle to a warm
place and allow the ice to melt.

--- Page 133 ---
egyt IsunsM

Features of your vehicle
ror
Manual type
inward.
4- • 60
Folding the outside rear view mir-
To fold the outside rear view mirror,
grasp the end of the mirror housing of
the mirror and pull it rearward and
Mirrors

--- Page 134 ---
Istaมlว tnomมาtenl

Features of your vehicle
Instrument cluster
- 20
0 MPH
1. Tachometer
2. Speedometer
3. Engine coolant temperature gauge
4. Fuel gauge
5. Odometer
6. Distance to empty
7. Transmission shift indicator
8. Outside temperature gauge
9. Warning and indicator lights
Conventional cluster (Type A)
ED
# 324mi
MPH x1000гpm
8 75F
) 2400mi
Full LCD cluster (Type B)
505)
* 75 12.1 A
Instrument cluster
H
2401 40V m

--- Page 135 ---
19taมlb tromuntenl

Features of your vehicle
Full LCD cluster (if equipped)
The full LCD type cluster provides two themes.
Type A
Type A is the basic theme of the full LCD type cluster and provides different graphic
styles depending on drive mode.
MPH
T1 596
Type B (Dynamic)
Type B is set by the user and provides digital display. The background screen
changes according to the weather and time.
MPH
$ 324ml
• Weather: sunny, cloudy, rainy, or snowy (4 types)
• Time: night, day, sunrise and sunset (4 types)
You can change the theme by selecting "Vehicle → Cluster → Selection Theme" on
the menu.
D
160- - 0
24F 12.IMPG
D
75F
Instrument cluster
x1000гpm 8
15000 r
2.4
× 1000 грм
2400 tri

--- Page 136 ---
Features of your vehicle NOTICE
The information is displayed after getting information from a weather information provider via GPS. Depending on
conditions of GPS reception, the information may be different from the current weather in your area.
If no information is received via GPS
(e.g., not subscribed to Kia Connect service), the weather and time will be displayed as 'sunny' or 'night' on the cluster.
Adjusting instrument cluster illumination
The brightness of the instrument panel
ilumination is changed by pressing the
ilumination control button ("+" or "-")
when the ignition switch or ENGINE
START/STOP button is ON, or the tail
lamps are turned on.
WARNING
Never adjust the instrument cluster
while driving. This could result in loss of
control and lead to an accident that may
cause DEATH, SERIOUS INJURY, or
property damage.
- If you hold the ilumination control
button ("+" or "-"), the brightness will
be changed continuously.
Instrument cluster
A: illumination
- If the brightness reaches to the maximum or minimum level, an alarm will
sound.
Gauges
The gauges display various information
such as the speed of the vehicle, and so
on.
Speedometer
Type A
Type B (km/h)/ (mph)
The speedometer indicates the speed of
the vehicle and is calibrated in miles per
hour (mph) and kilometers per hour
(km/h).

--- Page 137 ---
Features of your vehicle
Tachometer
Type A / Type B
The tachometer indicates the approximate number of engine revolutions per
minute (rpm).
Use the tachometer to select the correct
shift points and to prevent lugging and/
or over-revving the engine.
CAUTION
Do not operate the engine within the
tachometer's RED ZONE. This may cause
severe engine damage.
Engine coolant temperature
gauge
Type A / Type B
This gauge indicates the temperature of
the engine coolant when the ENGINE
START/STOP button is ON.
CAUTION
If the gauge pointer moves beyond the
normal range area toward the "H" position, it indicates overheating that may
damage the engine.
Do not continue driving with an overheated engine. If your vehicle overheats,
Instrument cluster
refer to "If the engine overheats" on
page 7-7.
WARNING
Never remove the radiator cap when the
engine is hot. The engine coolant is
under pressure and could severely burn.
Wait until the engine has cooled before
removing the cap.
Fuel gauge
Type A / Type B
This gauge indicates the approximate
amount of fuel remaining in the fuel
tank.
NOTICE
- The fuel tank capacity is given in
"Recommended lubricants and capacities" on page 9-7.
- The fuel gauge is supplemented by a
low fuel warning light, which will
appear when the fuel tank is nearly
empty.
- On inclines or curves, the fuel gauge
pointer may fluctuate or the low fuel
warning light may come on earlier
than usual due to the movement of
fuel in the tank.
WARNING
Fuel gauge
Running out of fuel can expose vehicle
occupants to danger.

--- Page 138 ---
Features of your vehicle You must stop and obtain additional fuel
as soon as possible after the warning
light comes on or when the gauge indicator comes close to the " E" level.
CAUTION
Avoid driving with an extremely low fuel
level. Running out of fuel could cause
the engine to misfire, which could damage the catalytic converter.
NOTICE
The fuel display may not be accurate if
the vehicle is on an incline.
Odometer
Type A / Type B
The odometer Indicates the total distance that the vehicle has been driven
and should be used to determine when
periodic maintenance should be performed.
- Odometer range: 0 ~ 1,599,999 km or
999,999 miles.
Instrument cluster
Distance to empty
Type A / Type B
- The distance to empty is the estimated distance the vehicle can be
driven with the remaining fuel.
- Distance range: 1 ~ 9,999 km or 1 ~
9,999 mi.
- If the estimated distance is below 1
mile (1 km), the trip computer will display "---" as distance to empty.
- If the level of the remaining fuel is
more than three-quarters, more than
0.8 galons (3 liters) of fuel must be
refiled for the fuel gauge to change.
In other cases, more than 1.6 galons
(6 liters) of fuel must be refiled for the
vehicle to change the fuel gauge.
NOTICE
- If the vehicle is not on level ground or
the battery power has been interrupted, the distance to empty function
may not operate correctly.
- The distance to empty may differ
from the actual driving distance as it
is an estimate of the available driving
distance.
- The trip computer may not register
additional fuel if less than 1.6 galons
(6 liters) of fuel are added to the vehicle.
- The fuel economy and distance to
empty may vary significantly based
on driving conditions, driving habits,
and condition of the vehicle.

--- Page 139 ---
Features of your vehicle
Outside temperature gauge
Type A
Type B
This gauge indicates the current outside
air temperatures by 1 °F (1 °C).
- Temperature range: -40 °F ~ 140 °F (-
40 °C ~ 60 °C)
The outside temperature on the display
may not change immediately like a general thermometer to prevent the driver
from being inattentive.
To change the temperature unit (from °C
to °F or from °F to °C)
The temperature unit can be changed
by using the "User Settings" mode of the
LCD Display.
* For more details, refer to "User settings
mode" on page 4-70.
Transmission shift indicator
Transmission shift indicator displays
gear information depending on your
vehicle's transmission type.
Instrument cluster
Automatic transmission shift indicator
Type A
Type B
This indicator displays which automatic
transmission gear is selected.
- Park: P
- Reverse: R
- Neutral: N
- Drive: D
Manual shift mode
僅 1/2/3/4/5/6/7/8

--- Page 140 ---
velgaib OJ

Features of your vehicle
LCD display
The LCD display modes can be changed
with the control buttons.
LCD Display Control
1. M: MODE button for changing
modes
2. ^/ V: MOVE switch for changing
items
3. OK: SELECT/RESET button for setting
or resetting the selected item
LCD display

--- Page 141 ---
Features of your vehicle
LCD display
LCD display modes
The LCD display provides 5 modes. You can switch modes by pressing the Mode button.
Mode
Driving Assist Trip Computer Turn By Turn
(TBT)* User Settings Information Master Warning
Forward collision-
Avoidance Assist
Lane Keeping
Assist
Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance
Assist*
Smart Cruise Control*
Lane following
Assist
Drive Information Route Guidance Driver Assistance* Driving force distribution (AWD)*
The Master Warning mode displays
warning messages
related to the vehicle when one or
more systems is
not operating normally.
Up/
Down
Driver Attention
Warning Since Refueling Destination Info Cluster TPMS
intelligent Speed
Limit Assist*
Accumulated Info
Lights*
AUTO STOP*
Digital Speedometer* Door*
Convenience*
Units
Language
Reset
The information provided may differ depending on which functions are applicable to
your vehicle.
* : if equipped
NOTICE
Keep the engine running when configuring the display settings to prevent the
battery from discharging.

--- Page 142 ---
Features of your vehicle Trip computer mode
A: Drive info
1 Accumulated trip distance
2 Total driving time
3 Average fuel efficiency
The trip computer mode displays information related to vehicle driving parameters including fuel economy, tripmeter
information and timer.
* For more details, refer to "Trip information (trip computer)" on page 4-77.
Turn By Turn (TBT) mode
This mode displays the state of the navigation.
Driving Assist mode
This mode displays the state of:
- Lane Safety
- Smart Cruise Control
LCD display
- Driver Attention Warning
Information mode
A: Low tire pressure
This mode displays the state of:
- Speedometer
- Engine temperature
- Tire pressure
- AWD traction (if equipped)
Tire pressure status
This mode displays information related
to Tire Pressure.
* For more details, refer to "Tire Pressure
Monitoring System (TPMS) (if
equipped)" on page 7-8.
Master warning mode
This warning light informs the driver the
following situations.
- LED headlamp malfunction
- Lamp malfunction
- High Beam Assist malfunction (if
equipped)
At this time, a Master Warning icon
( ) will appear beside the User Set-

--- Page 143 ---
[OCR unclear] brs fto bemut ed lliw troil paintsw yot

Features of your vehicle
tings icon (O%), on the LCD display. If
the warning situation is solved, the master warning light will be turned off and
the Master Warning icon will disappear.
User settings mode
User Settings
Driver Assistance >
Cluster
Lights
Door
In this mode, you can change the settings of the instrument cluster, doors,
lamps, etc.
1. Driver Assistance
2. Cluster
3. Lights
4. Sound
5. Door
6. Convenience
7. Service Interval
8. Units
9. Reset
The information provided may differ
depending on which functions are applicable to your vehicle.
4 — - 70
LCD display

--- Page 144 ---
Features of your vehicle LCD display
1. Driver Assistance
Items Explanation
Speed Limit*
- Speed Limit Offset
To adjust the Speed Limit Offset
- Speed Limit Assist/Speed Assist Warning/Off
To select the function of intelligent Speed Limit Assist
* For more details, refer to "intelligent Speed Limit Assist (ISLA)" on page 6-46.
Warning Timing - Standard/Late
To select the Warning Timing
Warning Methods
- Warning Volume (High/Medium/Low)
To adjust the Warning Volume
- Haptic Warning
To activate or deactivate Haptic Warning
- Lane Safety Audible Warning Off
To activate or deactivate Lane Safety Audible Warning
* For more details, refer to "Lane Keeping Assist (LKA)" on page 6-25.
Driver Attention Warning
- Leading Vehicle Departure Alert
- Inattentive Driving Warning
To activate or deactivate Driver Attention Warning
* For more details, refer to "Driver Attention Warning (DAW)" on page 6-52.
Forward Safety
To adjust Forward collision-Avoidance Assist.
- Active Assist/Warning Only/Off
To select the functions
* For more details, refer to "Forward collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Front Camera Only) (if
equipped)" on page 6-4, "Forward collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Sensor Fusion) (if equipped)"
on page 6-13
Lane Safety
To adjust Lane Keeping Assist
- Assist/Warning Only/Off
To select the functions
* For more details, refer to "Lane Keeping Assist (LKA)" on page 6-25.
Blind-Spot Safety
- Blind-Spot View
- Safe Exit Warning
To activate or deactivate Safe Exit Warning.
* For more details, refer to "Safe Exit Warning (SEW) (if equipped)" on page 6-40.
- Active Assist/Warning Only/Off
* For more details, refer to "Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist (BCA) (if equipped)" on page 6-30.
Parking Safety
- Parking Distance Warning Auto On
- Rear Cross-Traffic Safety
To activate or deactivate Rear Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance Assist.
- Rear Active Assist / Rear Warning Only /Off
* For more details, refer to "Rear Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance Assist (RCCA) (if equipped)" on page
6-95.
* For more details, refer to "Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance Assist (PCA) (if equipped)" on page 6-
110.
* The information provided may differ depending on which systems are applicable to
your vehicle.

--- Page 145 ---
Features of your vehicle
LCD display
2. Cluster
Items Explanation
Theme Selection - Link to Drive Mode
- Theme A/Theme B/Theme C/Dynamic
Wiper/Lights Display Activate
Traffic Signs Activate
Icy Road Warning Activate
Cluster Voice Guidance Volume 僅 0~3 Level
Welcome Sound Activate
3. Lights
Items Explanation
Ilumination 僅 1~20 Level
To adjust the instrument cluster ilumination.
One Touch Turn Signal
- Off: The one touch turn signal function will be deactivated.
僅 3, 5, 7 flashes: The turn signal indicator will blink 3, 5, or 7 times when the turn signal
lever is moved slightly.
* For more details, refer to "Lighting" on page 4-93.
Headlamp Delay If this item is checked, the headlamp delay function will be activated.
High Beam Assist If this item is checked, High Beam Assist will be activated.
* The information provided may differ depending on which functions are applicable
to your vehicle.

--- Page 146 ---
Features of your vehicle LCD display
4. Door
Items Automatically Lock
Explanation
- Enable on shift (for Automatic transmission): Al doors will be automatically locked if the vehicle is
shifted from the P (Park) position to the R (Reverse), N (Neutral), or D (Drive) position.
(With the Engine ON, it is activated.)
- Enable on speed (for Automatic transmission): Al doors will be automatically locked when the vehicle
speed exceeds 9.3 mph (15 km/h)
- Off: The auto door unlock operation will be canceled.
* If the setting is changed while the vehicle is in motion, the changed setting may not immediately operate.
Automatically Unlock
- On shift to P (for Automatic transmission): Al doors will be automatically unlocked if the gear is shifted
from R (Reverse), N (Neutral), or D (Drive position to P (Park) position. (With the Engine ON, it is activated.)
- Vehicle Off: Al doors will be automatically unlocked when the ignition key is removed from the ignition
switch or the ENGINE START/STOP button is set to the OFF position.
- Off: The auto door unlock operation will be canceled.
2 Press Unlock If this item is checked, the two press unlock will be activated. Press the door unlock button once to unlock
the driver's door, and press the button once more within 4 seconds to unlock the rest of the doors.
Power Liftgate If this item is checked, Power Liftgate will be activated.
Power Liftgate Opening Speed
- Normal/Fast
To adjust the power liftgate speed.
Power Liftgate Opening Height
- Level 1/Level 2/Level 3/Full Open/User Height Setting
To select the height.
* For more details, refer to "Power liftgate (if equipped)" on page 4-25.
Smart Liftgate To activate or deactivate the Smart Liftgate.
* For more details, refer to "Smart Liftgate with Auto Open (if equipped)" on page 4-29.
* The information provided may differ depending on which systems are applicable to
your vehicle.

--- Page 147 ---
Features of your vehicle
LCD display
5. Sound
Items Explanation
Welcome Sound If this item is checked, the welcome sound function will be activated.
6. Convenience
Items Explanation
Seat Easy Access - Off/Normal/Extended
To select the seat movement
Rear Occupant Alert If this item is checked, the Rear Occupant Alert (ROA) display will be activated.
Welcome Light - On Door Unlock/On Driver Approach
To select the welcome mirror/light function.
Welcome Mirror/Light If this item is checked, Welcome Mirror/Light will be activated.
Wireless Charging System Activate
Auto Rear Wiper (in R) If this item is checked, the Auto Rear Wiper will be activated when the front wiper is On
and the gear is selected in R (Reverse).
* The information provided may differ depending on which functions are applicable
to your vehicle.
7. Units
Items Explanation
Speedometer Unit - mph, km/h
To select the Speedometer unit.
Fuel Economy Unit
- US galon, UK galon
To select the Fuel economy unit.
For more details, refer to "Trip information (trip computer)" on page 4-77.
Temperature Unit 僅 °F/°C
To select the Temperature unit.
Tire Pressure Unit - psi, kPa, bar
To select the Tire Pressure Unit
* The information provided may differ depending on which functions are applicable
to your vehicle.

--- Page 148 ---
noitsnıslawa

Features of your vehicle
8. Language
9. Reset
Items
Reset
Hems
Language
To select the language.
Explanation
u can reset the menus in the User Settings mode. All menus in the User Settings mo
re reset to factory settings, except language and service interv
LCD display
Explanation
4- - 75

--- Page 149 ---
Features of your vehicle
Driver Assistance settings (infotainment system) (if equipped)
ONQ5E041406L select Settings → Vehicle → Driver
Assistance on the infotainment system
screen to set the Driver Assistance function.
- Driver assistance
- Driving Convenience
- Speed Limit
- Warning Timing
- Warning Volume
- Driver Attention Warning
- Forward Safety
- Lane Safety
- Blind-Spot Safety
- Parking Safety
INFORMATION
The infotainment system may change
after software updates. For more information, refer to the user`s manual provided in the infotainment system and
the quick reference guide.
LCD display
Vehicle settings (infotainment
system) (if equipped)
1. Press the Settings button on the head
unit of the infotainment system.
2.Select Vehicle and change the setting
of the features.
Vehicle Settings in the infotainment system provides user options for a variety
of settings including door lock/unlock
features, convenience features, driver
assistance settings, etc.
- Vehicle Settings
- Driver Assistance
- Cluster
- Climate
- Seat
- Lights
- Door
- Convenience
WARNING
Do not operate the Vehicle settings
while driving. This may cause distraction
resulting in an accident.
NOTICE
The information provided may differ
depending on which features are applicable to your vehicle.

--- Page 150 ---
Features of your vehicle LCD displays
LCD displays show the following information to drivers.
- Trip information
- LCD modes
- Warning messages
Trip information (trip computer)
The trip computer is a microcomputercontroled driver information system
that displays information related to driving.
NOTICE
Some driving information stored in the
trip computer resets if the battery is disconnected.
Trip modes
- A: Drive Info
- B: Since Refueling
LCD displays
- C: Accumulated Info
- D: AUTO STOP (if equipped)
- E: Digital Speedometer
1 Tripmeter
2 Average Fuel Economy
3 Timer
To change the trip mode, toggle the
switch ( / ) on the steering wheel.
Fuel economy
This information is always displayed at
the bottom center of the Full LCD cluster.
Average Fuel Economy (1)
1 Average fuel economy
2 Instant fuel economy
- The average fuel economy is calculated by the total driving distance and
fuel consumption since the last average fuel economy resets.
- Fuel economy range: 0 ~ 99.9 mpg
or km/L, L/100 km
NOTICE
The average fuel economy is not displayed for more accurate calculation if
the vehicle does not drive more than 10
seconds or 0.03 mi (50 m) since the
ignition switch or ENGINE START/STOP
button is turned to ON.

--- Page 151 ---
Features of your vehicle
Instant Fuel Economy (2)
- This mode displays the instant fuel
economy during the last few seconds
when the vehicle speed is more than
6.2 mph (10 km/h).
- Fuel economy range:
0.0 ~ 30 km/L, L/100 km or 0.0 ~
50.0 mpg
Accumulated driving information
mode
This display shows the accumulated trip
distance, the average fuel efficiency, and
the total driving time.
A: Accumulated info
1 Accumulated trip distance
2 Total driving time
3 Average fuel efficiency
- Accumulated information is calculated
after the vehicle has run for more
than 0.19 miles (300 m).
- If you press "OK" button for more than
1 second after the Cumulative Information is displayed, the information
will be reset.
- If the engine is running, even when
the vehicle is not in motion, the information will be accumulated.
Drive Info display
This display shows the trip distance (1),
the average fuel efficiency (2), and the
total driving time (3) information once
per one ignition cycle.
LCD displays
A: Drive info
1 Accumulated trip distance
2 Total driving time
3 Average fuel efficiency
- Fuel efficiency is calculated after the
vehicle has run for more than 0.19
miles (300 m).
- The information will automatically
reset when the driver's door is opened
after the ignition is turned off, or
approximately 3 minutes have passed
after the ignition is turned off.
- If the engine is running, even when
the vehicle is not in motion, the information will be accumulated.
Information since refueling
A: Since refueling
1 Accumulated trip distance
2 Total driving time
3 Average fuel efficiency
This display shows the trip distance, the
average fuel efficiency, and the instant
fuel efficiency (or the total driving time)
since refueling.

--- Page 152 ---
Features of your vehicle - Information since refueling is calculated after the vehicle has run for
more than 0.19 miles (300 m).
- If you press "OK" button for more than
1 second after the information since
refueling is displayed, the information
will be reset.
- If the engine is running, even when
the vehicle is not in motion, the information will be accumulated.
NOTICE
The vehicle must be driven for a minimum of 0.19 miles (300 m) since the last
ignition cycle before the average accumulated driving information is recalculated.
AUTO STOP (if equipped)
A: Timer
AUTO STOP display shows the elapsed
time of engine stop by Idle Stop and Go
(ISG) system.
If the ISG does not operate, the reason
for the non-operation is displayed. (if
equipped)
For more details, refer to "Idle Stop and
Go (ISG) system" on page 5-45.
Digital speedometer
This digital speedometer display shows
the speed of the vehicle.
LCD displays
Service mode
This mode reminds you of scheduled
maintenance information.
A: Service Interval
1 Service interval schedule
Service Interval
It calculates and displays when you need
a scheduled maintenance service (mileage or days).
If the remaining mileage or time reaches
900 miles (1,500 km) or 30 days, "Service interval" message is displayed for
several seconds each time you set the
ignition switch or ENGINE START/STOP
Button to the ON position.
Service required
If you do not have your vehicle serviced
according to the already input service
interval, "Service required" message is
displayed for several seconds each time
you set the ignition switch or ENGINE
START/STOP Button to the ON position.
To reset the service interval to the mileage and days you input before:
- Select 'Vehicle settings → Service
Interval → Reset'.

--- Page 153 ---
Features of your vehicle
NOTICE
If any of the following conditions occur,
the mileage and days may be incorrect.
- The battery cable is disconnected.
- The battery is discharged.
LCD display messages
Door, hood, liftgate, sunroof
open
A, B: Door, hood, liftgate, sunroof open
- This warning is displayed indicating
which door, the hood, the liftgate or
the sunroof is open.
Low pressure warning display
A: Low tire pressure
This warning message is displayed if the
tire pressure is low. The corresponding
tire on the vehicle will appear.
* For more details, refer to "Tire Pressure
Monitoring System (TPMS) (if
equipped)" on page 7-8.
LCD displays
Lights mode
A: Lights
3 AUTO
4 OFF (O)
This indicator displays which exterior
light is selected using the lighting control.
You can activate or deactivate Wiper/
Lights Display function from the User
Settings mode in the cluster LCD display.
Wiper mode
A: Front Wiper
1 OFF
2 AUTO
3 LO
4 HI
This indicator displays which wiper
speed is selected using the wiper control.
You can activate or deactivate Wiper/
Lights Display function from the User
Settings mode in the cluster LCD display.

--- Page 154 ---
Features of your vehicle Low washer fluid (if equipped)
This warning message is displayed if the
washer fluid level in the reservoir is
nearly empty.
Have the washer fluid reservoir refiled.
Icy road warning
This warning is to warn the driver the
road may be icy.
When the following conditions occur, the
warning light (including outside temperature gauge) blinks 5 times and then
appears, and also warning chime sounds
once.
- The temperature on the outside temperature gauge is below approximately 40 °F (4 °C).
NOTICE
If the icy road warning appears while
driving, you should drive more attentively and safely refraining from overspeeding, rapid acceleration, sudden
braking or sharp turning, etc.
Engine overheated
- This warning message appears when
the engine coolant temperature is
LCD displays
above 248 °F (120 °C). This means
that the engine is overheated and
may be damaged.
* If your vehicle is overheated, refer to "If
the engine overheats" on page 7-7.
Low engine oil
- This warning message appears when
the engine oil level is insufficient.
- Refil the engine oil.
* For more details, refer to "Engine oil" on
page 8-15.
WARNING
When the engine oil level warning light
occurs, it is necessary to check whether
maintenance schedule (Engine oil
replacement) in owner's manual has
been followed before replenishing the
oil, and if not followed, the engine oil
must be replaced first.
Engine oil change due soon.
Reset oil life after oil change
- This warning message illuminates
when the remaining engine oil life
reaches 5% or below.
- Replace engine oil from an authorized
Kia dealer. After that, select 'Convenience → Oil Change Reminder' from
the User Settings menu on the cluster
or 'Vehicle → Cluster → Oil Change
Reminder" from Settings menu on the
infotainment system screen to reset
the remaining oil life.
* For more details, refer to "Engine oil" on
page 8-15.

--- Page 155 ---
Features of your vehicle
Engine oil change due now. Reset
oil life after oil change
- This warning message illuminates
when the remaining engine oil life
reaches 1% or below.
- Replace engine oil immediately from
an authorized Kia dealer. After that,
select 'Convenience → Oil Change
Reminder' from the User Settings
menu on the cluster or 'Vehicle →
Cluster → Oil Change Reminder" from
Settings menu on the infotainment
system screen to reset the remaining
oil life.
* For more details, refer to "Engine oil" on
page 8-15.
Low key battery (for smart key
system)
- This warning message appears if the
battery of the smart key is discharged
when the ENGINE START/STOP Button changes to the OFF position.
Press START button while turning wheel (for smart key system)
- This warning message appears if the
steering wheel does not unlock normally when the ENGINE START/STOP
Button is pressed.
- It means that you should press the
ENGINE START/STOP Button while
turning the steering wheel right and
left.
Steering wheel not locked (for
smart key system)
- This warning message appears if the
steering wheel does not lock when the
ENGINE START/STOP Button changes
to the OFF position.
LCD displays
Check steering wheel lock system
(for smart key system)
- This warning message appears if the
steering wheel does not lock normally
when the ENGINE START/STOP Button changes to the OFF position.
Key not in vehicle (for smart key
system)
- This warning message appears if the
smart key is not in the vehicle when
you press the ENGINE START/STOP
Button.
- It means that you should always have
the smart key with you.
Key not detected (for smart key
system)
- This warning message appears if the
smart key is not detected when you
press the ENGINE START/STOP Button.
Shift to P or N to start engine (for
smart key system)
- This warning message appears if you
try to start the engine with the gear
not in the P (Park) or N (Neutral) position.
Press brake pedal to start engine
(for smart key system)
- This warning message appears if the
ENGINE START/STOP Button changes
to the ACC position twice by pressing
the button repeatedly without
depressing the brake pedal.
- It means that you should depress the
brake pedal to start the engine.

--- Page 156 ---
Features of your vehicle Battery discharging due to external electrical devices
The vehicle can detect self-discharge of
the battery due to over-current that is
generated by unauthorized electrical
devices such as dashboard camera
(dash cam) mounting during parking.
If the warning continues even after
external electrical devices are removed,
have your vehicle inspected by an
authorized Kia dealer.
Press START button again (for
smart key system)
- This warning message appears if you
can not operate the ENGINE START/
STOP Button when there is a problem
with the ENGINE START/STOP Button
system.
- It means that you could start the
engine by pressing the ENGINE
START/STOP button once more.
- If the warning appears each time you
press the ENGINE START/STOP Button, have the vehicle inspected by an
authorized Kia dealer.
Press START button with key (for
smart key system)
- This warning message appears if you
press the ENGINE START/STOP Button while the warning message "Key
not detected" is appeared.
- At this time, the immobilizer indicator
light blinks.
Warning and indicator lights
Warning and indicator lights
The warning light and indicator light
indicate a situation where the driver
should be careful and whether the various functions are activated.
Warning lights
The warning light indicates situations
that require the driver to pay attention.
NOTICE
Warning lights
Make sure that all warning lights are
OFF after starting the engine. If any light
is still ON, this indicates a situation that
needs attention.
Air bag warning light
This warning light appears:
- Once you set the ignition switch or
ENGINE START/STOP Button to the
ON position.
- It appears for approximately 3 ~ 6
seconds and then goes off.
- When there is a malfunction with the
SRS. In this case, have the vehicle
inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.
Seat belt warning light
This warning light informs the
driver that the seat belt is not fastened.
* For more details, refer to "Seat belts" on
page 3-17.

--- Page 157 ---
Features of your vehicle
Parking brake & brake fluid
warning light
This warning light appears:
- Once you set the ignition switch or
ENGINE START/STOP Button to the
ON position.
- It appears for approximately 3 seconds
- It remains on if the parking brake is
applied.
- When the parking brake is applied.
- When the brake fluid level in the reservoir is low.
- If the warning light appears with
the parking brake released, it indicates the brake fluid level in reservoir is low.
If the brake fluid level in the reservoir is low:
1. Drive carefuly to the nearest safe
location and stop your vehicle.
2.With the engine stopped, check the
brake fluid level immediately and add
fluid as required (For more details,
refer to "Brake fluid" on page 8-14).
Then check all brake components for
fluid leaks. If any leak on the brake
system is still found, the warning light
remains on, or the brakes do not
operate properly, do not drive the
vehicle.
In this case, have your vehicle towed
to an authorized Kia dealer and
inspected.
Dual-diagonal braking system
Your vehicle is equipped with dual-diagonal braking systems. This means you
still have braking on two wheels even if
one of the dual systems should fail.
Warning and indicator lights
With only one of the dual systems working, more than normal pedal travel and
greater pedal pressure are required to
stop the vehicle.
Also, the vehicle will not stop in as short
a distance with only a portion of the
brake system working.
If the brakes fail while you are driving,
shift to a lower gear for additional
engine braking and stop the vehicle as
soon as it is safe to do so.
NOTICE
Parking brake & brake fluid warning
light
Driving the vehicle with a warning light
ON is dangerous. If the Parking Brake &
Brake Fluid Warning Light appears with
the parking brake released, it indicates
that the brake fluid level is low.
In this case, have your vehicle inspected
by an authorized Kia dealer.
Anti-lock brake system (ABS)
warning light
This warning light appears:
- Once you set the ignition switch or
ENGINE START/STOP button to the
ON position.
- It appears for approximately 3 seconds and then goes off.
- When there is a malfunction with the
ABS (The normal braking system will
still be operational without the assistance of the anti-lock brake system).
In this case, have the vehicle
inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.

--- Page 158 ---
Features of your vehicle Warning and indicator lights
Electronic Brake Force Distribution (EBD) system warning light
NOTICE
These two warning lights appear
at the same time while driving:
- When the ABS and regular brake system are not working, have your vehicle inspected by an authorized Kia
dealer.
Electronic Parking Brake (EPB) warning light
The Electronic Parking Brake (EPB)
warning light may appear when the
Electronic Stability Control (ESC) Indicator Light comes on to indicate that the
ESC is not working properly (This does
not indicate malfunction of the EPB).
WARNING
Electronic Brake Force Distribution
(EBD) system warning light
When both ABS and parking brake &
brake fluid warning lights are on, the
brake system will not work normally and
you may experience an unexpected and
dangerous situation during sudden
braking.
In this case, avoid high speed driving
and abrupt braking.
Have your vehicle inspected by an
authorized Kia dealer as soon as possible.
Electric Power Steering (EPS)
warning light
This warning light appears:
- Once you set the ignition switch or
ENGINE START/STOP Button to the
ON position.
- This indicator light comes on after
the ignition switch or ENGINE
START/STOP button is in the ON
position and then goes out after
approximately 3 seconds.
- When there is a malfunction with the
EPS.
In this case, have the vehicle
inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.
Electronic Parking Brake (EPB)
warning light (if equipped)
This warning light appears:
- Once you set the ignition switch or
ENGINE START/STOP button to the
ON position.
- It appears for approximately 3 seconds and then goes off.
- When there is a malfunction with the
EPB.
charging system.
Charging system warning light
This warning light appears:
- Once you set the ignition switch or
ENGINE START/STOP button to the
ON position.
- When there is a malfunction with
either the alternator or electrical
In this case, have the vehicle
inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.

--- Page 159 ---
Features of your vehicle
If there is a malfunction with
either the alternator or electrical
charging system:
1. Drive carefuly to the nearest safe
location and stop your vehicle.
2.Turn the engine off and check the
alternator drive belt for looseness or
breakage.
In this case, have the vehicle
inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.
Malfunction Indicator Lamp (MIL)
This warning light appears:
- When you set the ignition switch or
the ENGINE START/STOP button to
the ON position.
- The malfunction indicator light
appears for about 3 seconds and
then goes off.
- Whenever there is a malfunction with
either the emission control system or
the engine or the vehicle powertrain.
If this occurs, have the vehicle
inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.
CAUTION
Malfunction Indicator Lamp (MIL)
- Driving with the Malfunction Indicator
Lamp (MIL) on may cause damage to
the emission control systems which
could effect drivability and/or fuel
economy.
- If the enhanced engine protection
system becomes activated due to lack
of engine oil, engine power will be limited. If such condition continues
repeatedly, the Malfunction Indicator
Lamp will appear.
Warning and indicator lights
CAUTION
If the oil pressure lowers due to insufficient engine oil, etc., the engine oil pressure warning light turns on and an
enhanced engine protection system that
limits the engine's power is activated.
After that, engine warning light turns on
if driving repeatedly and continuously.
CAUTION
If the Malfunction Indicator Lamp (MIL)
appears, potential catalytic converter
damage is possible which could result in
loss of engine power. In this case, have
the vehicle inspected by an authorized
Kia dealer.
Engine oil pressure warning light
This warning light appears:
- Once you set the ignition switch or
ENGINE START/STOP Button to the
ON position.
- It remains on until the engine is
started.
- When the engine oil pressure is low.
If the engine pressure is low:
- Drive carefuly to the nearest safe
location and stop your vehicle.
- Turn the engine off and check the
engine oil level (For more details, refer
to "Engine oil and filter" on page 8-
13"). If the level is low, add oil as
required.
- If the warning light remains on after
adding oil or if oil is not available,
have the vehicle inspected by an
authorized Kia dealer. Continued driv-

--- Page 160 ---
Features of your vehicle ing with the warning light on may
cause engine failure.
NOTICE
- When engine oil pressure decreases
due to insufficient engine oil, etc., the
Engine Oil Pressure warning light will
appear.
- The enhanced engine protection system which limits engine power will be
activated. If the engine oil pressure is
restored, the Engine Oil Pressure
warning light and the enhanced
engine protection system will turn off.
- When the engine oil pressure is
restored, the warning light and the
enhanced engine protection system
will turn off after the engine is
restarted.
CAUTION
Engine overheating
Do not continue driving with the engine
overheated. Otherwise, the engine may
be damaged.
CAUTION
Engine damage
If the engine is not stopped immediately
after the engine oil pressure warning
light appears and stays on while the
engine is running, serious engine damage may result.
Exhaust system (GPF) warning
light (Gasoline Engine)
This warning light appears:
- When there is a malfunction with Gasoline Particulate Filter (GPF) system.
Warning and indicator lights
- When this warning light appears, it
may turn off after driving the vehicle:
- The vehicle should be driven for
more than 30 minutes at a speed of
50 mph (80 km/h) and faster.
- Ensure the following conditions are
all met: safe road conditions, transmission 3rd gear or above, and
engine speed of 1,500 - 4,000 rpm.
If this warning light blinks in spite of the
procedure (at this time the LCD warning
message will be displayed), have the
GPF system checked by an authorized
Kia dealer.
CAUTION
Gasoline engine with GPF (if
equipped)
If you continue to drive with the GPF
warning light blinking for a long time,
the GPF system can be damaged and
fuel consumption can worsen.
Low fuel level warning light
This warning light appears:
When the fuel tank is nearly empty.
If the fuel tank is nearly empty:
Add fuel as soon as possible.
CAUTION
Low fuel level
Driving with the Low Fuel Level warning
light on or with the fuel level below "E"
can cause the engine to misfire and
damage the catalytic converter.

--- Page 161 ---
Features of your vehicle
Master warning light
This indicator light appears:
- This warning light informs the driver
the following situations
- LED headlamp malfunction (if
equipped)
- Lamp malfunction
- High Beam Assist malfunction (if
equipped)
To identify the details of the warning
look at the LCD display.
If the warning situation is solved, the
master warning light will turn off.
Low tire pressure warning light
This warning light appears:
- Once you set the ignition switch or
ENGINE START/STOP button to the
ON position.
- It appears for approximately 3 seconds and then goes off.
- When one or more of your tires are
significantly under inflated. (The location of the underinflated tires are displayed on the LCD display).
* For more details, refer to "Tire Pressure
Monitoring System (TPMS) (if
equipped)" on page 7-8.
This warning light remains on
after blinking for approximately
60 seconds or repeats blinking on
and off at the intervals of
approximately 3 seconds:
- When there is a malfunction with the
TPMS.
Warning and indicator lights
In this case, have the vehicle
inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.
* For more details, refer to "Tire Pressure
Monitoring System (TPMS) (if
equipped)" on page 7-8.
WARNING
Low tire pressure
- Significantly low tire pressure makes
the vehicle unstable and can contribute to loss of vehicle control and
increased braking distances.
- Continued driving with low pressure
tires will cause the tires to overheat
and fail.
WARNING
Safe stopping
- The TPMS cannot alert you about
severe and sudden tire damage
caused by external factors.
- If you notice any vehicle instability,
immediately take your foot off the
accelerator pedal, apply the brakes
gradually with light force, and slowly
move to a safe position off the road.
LED headlamp warning light
This warning light appears:
- Once you set the ENGINE START/
STOP button to the ON position.
- It appears for approximately 3 seconds and then goes off.
- When there is a malfunction with the
LED headlamp.
In this case, have the vehicle inspected
by an authorized Kia dealer.

--- Page 162 ---
Features of your vehicle This warning light blinks:
- When there is a malfunction with a
LED headlamp related part.
In this case, have the vehicle inspected
by an authorized Kia dealer.
CAUTION
LED headlamp warning light
Continuous driving with the LED Headlamp Warning Light on or blinking can
reduce LED headlamp (low beam) life.
Forward Safety warning light
(if equipped)
This indicator light appears:
- When there is a malfunction with Forward collision-Avoidance Assist.
In this case, have the vehicle inspected
by an authorized Kia dealer.
* For more details, refer to "Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Front
Camera Only) (if equipped)" on page
6-4 or "Forward collision-Avoidance
Assist (FCA) (Sensor Fusion) (if
equipped)" on page 6-13.
Icy road warning light (if
equipped)
This warning light is to warn the driver
the road may be icy. When the temperature on the outside temperature gauge
is approximately below 39 °F (4 °C) the
Icy road warning light and outside temperature gauge blinks and then appears.
Also, the warning chime sounds 1 time.
Warning and indicator lights
All Wheel Drive (AWD) warning
light (if equipped)
This warning light appears:
- Once you set the ignition switch or
ENGINE START/STOP button to the
ON position.
- It appears for approximately 3 seconds and then goes off.
- When there is a malfunction with the
AWD.
In this case, have your vehicle
inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.
Indicator lights
Electronic stability control (ESC)
indicator light
This indicator light appears:
- Once you set the ignition switch or
ENGINE START/STOP Button to the
ON position.
- It appears for approximately 3 seconds and then goes off.
- When there is a malfunction with the
ESC system.
In this case, have the vehicle
inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.
This indicator light blinks:
While the ESC is operating.
* For more details, refer to "Electronic
Stability Control (ESC) system" on
page 5-35.

--- Page 163 ---
Features of your vehicle
Electronic stability control (ESC)
OFF indicator light
This indicator light appears:
- Once you set the ignition switch or
ENGINE START/STOP Button to the
ON position.
- It appears for approximately 3 seconds and then goes off.
- When you deactivate the ESC system
by pressing the ESC OFF button.
* For more details, refer to "Electronic
Stability Control (ESC) system" on
page 5-35.
Auto Stop indicator light
This indicator light appears:
- White: When the system operating
conditions are satisfied
- Green: When the ISG system is activated
- yellow: When there is a malfunction
with the ISG function
When the automatic starting occurs, the
green auto stop indicator on the cluster
will blink for 5 seconds.
* For more details, refer to "Idle Stop and
Go (ISG) system" on page 5-45.
NOTICE
When the engine automatically starts by
ISG system, some warning lights (ABS,
ESC, ESC OFF, EPS or Parking brake
warning light) may turn on for a few seconds. This happens because of the low
battery voltage. It does not mean the
system is malfunctioning.
Warning and indicator lights
AUTO HOLD indicator light
(AUTO HOLD) (if equipped)
This indicator light appears:
- White When you activate the auto
hold system by pressing the AUTO
HOLD button.
- Green When you stop the vehicle
completely by depressing the brake
pedal with the auto hold system activated.
- Yellow When there is a malfunction
with the auto hold system. In this case,
have the vehicle inspected by an
authorized Kia dealer.
* For more details, refer to "AUTO HOLD
(if equipped)" on page 5-32.
Immobilizer indicator light (without smart key) (if equipped)
This indicator light appears:
- When the vehicle detects the immobilizer in your key properly while the
ignition switch is ON.
- At this time, you can start the
engine.
- The indicator light goes off after
starting the engine.
This indicator light blinks:
- When there is a malfunction with the
immobilizer system.
In this case, have the vehicle
inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.

--- Page 164 ---
Features of your vehicle Immobilizer indicator light (with
smart key)
This indicator light appears for
up to 30 seconds:
- When the vehicle detects the smart
key in the vehicle properly while the
ENGINE START/STOP button is ACC
or ON.
- At this time, you can start the
engine.
- The indicator light goes off after
starting the engine.
This indicator light blinks for a
few seconds:
- When the smart key is not in the vehicle.
- At this time, you can not start the
engine.
This indicator light appears for 2
seconds and goes off:
- When the vehicle can not detect the
smart key which is in the vehicle while
the ENGINE START/STOP Button is
ON.
In this case, have the vehicle
inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.
This indicator light blinks:
- When the battery of the smart key is
weak.
- At this time, you can not start the
engine. However, you can start the
engine if you press the ENGINE
START/STOP Button with the smart
key. (For more details, refer to
"Immobilizer system" on page 4-
10).
- When there is a malfunction with the
immobilizer system.
Warning and indicator lights
In this case, have the vehicle
inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.
Turn signal indicator light
This indicator light blinks:
- When you turn the turn signal light on.
If any of the following occurs, there may
be a malfunction with the turn signal
system. In this case, have the vehicle
inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.
- The indicator light does not blink but
appears.
- The indicator light blinks more rapidly.
- The indicator light does not appear at
al.
Low beam indicator light
This indicator light appears:
- When the headlamps are on.
High beam indicator light
This indicator light appears:
- When the headlamps are on and in
the high beam position.
- When the turn signal lever is puled
into the Flash-to-Pass position.
High Beam Assist indicator light
This indicator light appears:
- When the high beam is on with the
light switch in the AUTO light position.
- If your vehicle detects oncoming or
preceding vehicles, High Beam Assist

--- Page 165 ---
Features of your vehicle
will switch the high beam to low beam
automatically.
* For more details, refer to "High Beam
Assist (HBA)" on page 4-97.
Light ON indicator light
This indicator light appears:
- When the tailamps or headlamps are
on.
Front fog indicator light (if
equipped)
This indicator light appears:
- When the front fog lights are on.
Lane Safety indicator light
(if equipped)
Lane Safety indicator will appear when
you turn Lane Keeping Assist on by
pressing Lane Safety button.
If there is a problem with Lane Keeping
Assist, the yellow LaneSafety indicator
will appear.
* For more details, refer to "Lane Keeping
Assist (LKA)" on page 6-25.
Cruise Control indicator light
(if equipped)
This indicator light appears:
- When the cruise control system is
enabled.
* For more details, refer to "Cruise Control (CC) (if equipped)" on page 6-58.
Warning and indicator lights
Downhill Brake Control (DBC)
indicator light
This indicator light appears:
- When you set the ignition switch or
ENGINE START/STOP Button to the
ON position.
- It appears for approximately 3 seconds and then goes off.
- When you activate the system by
pressing the DBC button.
This indicator light blinks:
- When the DBC is operating.
This indicator light appears yellow:
- When there is a malfunction with the
DBC system.
If this occurs, have your vehicle
inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.
* For more details, refer to "downhill
Brake Control (DBC)" on page 5-38.
All Wheel Drive (AWD) LOCK
indicator light (if equipped)
This indicator light appears:
- Once you set the ignition switch or
ENGINE START/STOP button to the
ON position.
- It appears for approximately 3 seconds and then goes off.
- When you select AWD lock mode by
pressing the AWD LOCK button.
- The AWD lock mode is to increase
the drive power when driving on
wet pavement, snow covered roads
and/or off-road.

--- Page 166 ---
Features of your vehicle Lighting
NOTICE
AWD lock mode
Do not use AWD LOCK mode on dry
paved roads or highway, it can cause
noise, vibration or damage of AWD
related parts.
Lighting
This vehicle is equipped with a variety of
lights to appear the interior and exterior
of the vehicle.
CAUTION
SPORT Mode indicator light
To prevent the battery from being discharged, do not leave the headlamp and
interior light on for a prolonged time
while the engine is not running.
This indicator light appears :
- When you select "SPORT" mode as
drive mode.
For more details, refer to "Drive mode
integrated control system" on page 5-
50.
Battery saver function
The purpose of this feature is to prevent
the battery from being discharged if the
lights are left in the ON position. The
system automatically shuts off the parking lights after the engine is off and the
driver's door is opened.
However, the position lamps stay ON
even when the driver-side door is
opened if the light switch is operated
after the engine is turned off.
If necessary, to keep the lamps on turn
the position lamps OFF and ON again
using the headlamp switch on the steering column after the engine is turned off.
Headlamp delay function
If you place the ignition switch or
ENGINE START/STOP button in the ACC
or OFF position with the headlamps ON,
the headlamps (and/or parking lights)
remain on for about 5 minutes. However, with the engine off if the driver's
door is opened and closed, the headlamps (and/or parking lights) are turned
off after 15 seconds.
The headlamps (and/or parking lights)
can be turned off by pressing the lock
button on the smart key twice or turning
the light switch to the OFF or AUTO
position. However, if you turn the light
switch to the AUTO position when it is

--- Page 167 ---
Features of your vehicle
dark outside, the headlamps will not be
turned off.
You can activate or deactivate the Headlamp Delay function from the User Settings Mode in the LCD display. For more
details, refer to "User settings mode" on
page 4-70. If your vehicle is equipped
with additional navigation, please refer
to the infotainment system manual separately supplied.
NOTICE
If the driver exits the vehicle through
another door besides the driver door,
the battery saver function does not
operate and the headlamp delay function does not turn OFF automatically.
This may cause the battery to discharge.
To avoid battery discharge, turn OFF the
headlamps manually from the headlamp
switch before exiting the vehicle.
Daytime Running Light (DRL)
The Daytime Running Light (DRL) can
make it easier for others to see the front
of your vehicle during the day.
The DRL can be helpful in many different driving conditions, and it is especially
helpful after dawn and before sunset.
The DRL will turn the dedicated lamp
OFF when:
- The headlamps are ON.
- The vehicle is off.
- The front fog light is on. (if equipped)
- Engaging the parking brake.
Lighting control
The light switch has a headlamp and a
position lamp position.
Lighting
To operate the lights, turn the knob at
the end of the control lever to one of the
following positions:
1 OFF position
2 Auto light position
3 Position & Tailamp
4 Headlamp position
Position & Taillamp
When the light switch is in the position
lamp position, the front position lamp,
tailamp, and the license plate lamp will
turn ON.
Headlamp (Low Beam)
When the light switch is in the headlamp
position, headlamp (low beam), tail,
license light will turn ON.

--- Page 168 ---
Features of your vehicle Lighting
NOTICE
Operating high beam
The ignition switch or ENGINE START/
STOP button must be in the ON position
to turn on the headlamps.
Auto light
To turn on the high beam headlamp:
- Push the lever away from you.
The lever will return to its original
position.
The high beam indicator will light
when the headlamp high beams are
switched on.
WARNING
High beams
Do not use high beam when there are
other vehicles in front of or approaching
your vehicle. Using high beam could
obstruct the other driver's vision.
When the light switch is in the AUTO
light position, the tailamps and headlamps will turn ON or OFF automatically
depending on the amount of light outside the vehicle.
To flash the headlamps:
- Pull the lever towards you.
CAUTION
- Never place anything over the sensor
(1) located on the instrument panel as
this will ensure better auto-light system control.
- Don't clean the sensor using a window
cleaner, the cleaner may leave a light
film which could interfere with sensor
operation.
- If your vehicle has window tint or
other types of metallic coating on the
front windshield, the Auto light system
may not work properly.
It will return to the normal (low beam)
position when released. The headlamp switch does not need to be on to
use this flashing feature.

--- Page 169 ---
Features of your vehicle
Operating turn signals and lane
change signals
The ENGINE START/STOP button must
be on for the turn signals to function.
To turn on the turn signals:
- Move the lever up or down (A).
The green arrow indicators on the
instrument panel indicate which turn
signal is operating.
They will self-cancel after a turn is
completed. If the indicator continues
to flash after a turn, manually return
the lever to the OFF position.
To signal a lane change:
- Move the turn signal lever slightly and
hold it in position (B).
The lever will return to the OFF position when released.
If an indicator stays on and does not
flash or if it flashes abnormally, one of
the turn signal bulbs may be burned out
and will require replacement.
One-touch lane change function
To activate a one-touch lane change
function, move the turn signal lever
slightly and then release it. The lane
change signals will blink 3, 5 or 7 times.
You can activate or deactivate the One
Touch Turn Signal function or choose
the number of blinking (3, 5, or 7) by
selecting "Vehicle →Lights → One Touch
Turn Signal".
Lighting
NOTICE
If an indicator flash is abnormally quick
or slow, a bulb may be burned out or
have a poor electrical connection in the
circuit. The bulb may require replacement.
Operating front fog light (if
equipped)
Fog lights are designed to provide
improved visibility when visibility is poor
due to fog, rain or snow, etc.
The fog lights will turn on when the fog
light switch (1) is turned to the on position after the headlamp is turned on.
To turn off the fog lights:
- Turn the fog light switch (1) to the ON
position.
CAUTION
When in operation, the fog lights consume large amounts of vehicle electrical
power. Only use the fog lights when visibility is poor.

--- Page 170 ---
Features of your vehicle Lighting
High Beam Assist (HBA)
High Beam Assist setting
With the ENGINE START/STOP button in
the ON position, select 'Lights → High
Beam Assist' from the Settings menu to
turn on High Beam Assist and deselect
to turn off the function.
WARNING
High Beam Assist is a function that automatically adjusts the headlamp range
(switches between high beam and low
beam) depending on the brightness of
detected vehicles and certain road conditions.
For your safety, adjust your high beam
settings only after parking the vehicle at
a safe location.
Detecting sensor
Front view camera
The front view camera is used as a
detecting sensor to detect ambient light
and brightness while driving.
Refer to the picture above for the
detailed location of the detecting sensor.
NOTICE
- Always keep the front view camera in
good condition to maintain optimal
performance of High Beam Assist.
- For more details on the precautions of
the front view camera, refer to "Forward collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA)
(Front Camera Only) (if equipped)" on
page 6-4 and "Forward collision-
Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Sensor
Fusion) (if equipped)" on page 6-13.
High Beam Assist operation
Display and control
- After selecting 'High Beam Assist' in
the Settings menu, High Beam Assist
will operate by following the procedure below.
- Place the headlamp switch in the
AUTO position and push the headlamp lever towards the instrument
cluster. The High Beam Assist ( )
indicator light will appear on the
cluster and the function will be
enabled.
- When the function is enabled, high
beam will turn on when vehicle
speed is above 25 mph (40 km/h).
When vehicle speed is below 15
mph (25 km/h), high beam will not
turn on.
- The High Beam ( ) indicator light
will appear on the cluster when
high beam is on.
- When High Beam Assist is operating,
if the headlamp lever or switch is
used, the function operates as follows:
- If the headlamp lever is puled
towards you when the high beam is
off, the high beam will turn on without High Beam Assist canceled.

--- Page 171 ---
Features of your vehicle
When you let go of the headlamp
lever, High Beam Assist will turn on
again.
- If you push the light switch towards
the instrument cluster, high beam is
turned on and High Beam Assist is
released.
- If the headlamp lever is puled
towards you when the high beam is
on by High Beam Assist, low beam
will be on and the function will turn
off.
- If the headlamp switch is placed
from AUTO to another position
(headlamp/position/off), High
Beam Assist will turn off and the
corresponding lamp will turn on.
- When High Beam Assist is operating,
high beam switches to low beam if
any of the following conditions occur:
- When the headlamp of an oncoming vehicle is detected.
- When the tailamp of a vehicle in
front is detected.
- When the headlamp or tailamp of a
motorcycle or a bicycle is detected.
- When the surrounding ambient
light is bright enough that high
beams are not required.
- When streetlights or other lights are
detected.
Malfunction and limitations
Malfunction
A: Check High Beam Assist (HBA) system
Lighting
When High Beam Assist is not working
properly, the 'Check High Beam Assist
(HBA) system' warning message will
appear and warning light ( ) will
appear on the cluster. Have the function
inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.
Limitations
High Beam Assist may not work properly
in the following situations:
- Light from a vehicle is not detected
because of lamp damage, or because
it is hidden from sight, etc.
- Headlamp of a vehicle is covered with
dust, snow or water.
- A vehicle's headlamps are off but the
fog lamps are on and etc.
- There is a lamp that has a similar
shape as a vehicle's lamp.
- Headlamps have been damaged or
not repaired properly.
- Headlamps are not aimed properly.
- Driving on a narrow curved road,
rough road, uphill or downhill.
- Vehicle in front is partially visible on a
crossroad or curved road.
- There is a traffic light, reflecting sign,
flashing sign or mirror ahead.
- There is a temporary reflector or flash
ahead (construction area).
- The road conditions are bad such as
being wet, iced or covered with snow.
- A vehicle suddenly appears from a
curve.
- The vehicle is tilted from a flat tire or
is being towed.
- Light from a vehicle is not detected
because of exhaust fume, smoke, fog,
snow, etc.

--- Page 172 ---
Features of your vehicle NOTICE
- Depending on the instrument cluster
specification or theme, images or colors may be displayed differently.
- For more details on the limitations of
the front view camera, refer to "Forward collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA)
(Front Camera Only) (if equipped)" on
page 6-4 and "Forward collision-
Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Sensor
Fusion) (if equipped)" on page 6-13.
WARNING
- At times, High Beam Assist may not
work properly. The function is for your
convenience only. It is the responsibility of the driver for safe driving practices and always check the road
conditions for your safety.
- When High Beam Assist does not
operate normally, change the headlamp position manually between high
beam and low beam.
Wipers and washers
Wipers and washers
The wipers and washers remove foreign
substances from the windshield and rear
window, helping to maintain visibility.
A: Wiper speed control
- MIST – Single wipe
- OFF – Off
- INT – Intermittent wipe
AUTO* – Auto control wipe
- LO – Low wiper speed
- HI – High wiper speed
B: Intermittent control wipe time
adjustment/Auto control wipe time
adjustment*
C: Wash with brief wipes (Pull lever
towards you)
D: Rear wiper/washer control
- HI - Continuous wipe
- LO - Intermittent wipe
- OFF - Off
E: Wash with brief wipes (Rear/Push
lever away from you)
*: if equipped

--- Page 173 ---
Features of your vehicle
Windshield wipers
Operate as follows when the ignition
switch or ENGINE START/STOP button is
ON.
- MIST: For a single wiping cycle, move
the lever to this position and release it.
The wipers will operate continuously if
the lever is held in this position.
- OFF: Wiper is not in operation
- INT: Wiper operates intermittently at
the same wiping intervals. Use this
mode in light rain or mist. To vary the
speed setting, turn the speed control
knob.
- LO: Normal wiper speed
- HI: Fast wiper speed
NOTICE
If there is heavy accumulation of snow
or ice on the windshield, defrost the
windshield for about 10 minutes, or until
the snow and/or ice is removed before
using the windshield wipers to ensure
proper operation. If you do not remove
the snow and/or ice before using the
wiper and washer, it may damage the
wiper and washer system.
WARNING
Do not use the washer in freezing temperatures without first warming the
windshield with the defrosters; the
washer solution could freeze on the
windshield and obscure your vision,
resulting in an accident.
INFORMATION
If you operate the wipers while driving
on snowy roads, the wipers may stop
due to snow buildup on your windshield.
This is normal and not a failure because
it is one of our safety features to prevent
Wipers and washers
vehicle accidents and wiper damage
from overloading the wiper motor. If the
wipers stop, remove snow accumulated
on the top or bottom of windshield
before using them.
Auto control (if equipped)
The rain sensor (A) located on the upper
end of the windshield glass senses the
amount of rainfal and controls the wiping cycle for the proper interval. The
more it rains, the faster the wiper operates. When the rain stops, the wiper
stops.
To vary the speed setting, turn the
speed control knob (B).
If the wiper switch is set in AUTO mode
when the ignition switch or ENGINE
START/STOP button is ON, the wiper will
operate once to perform a self-check of
the system. Set the wiper to OFF position
when the wiper is not in use.
WARNING
When the ignition switch or ENGINE
START/STOP button is ON and the windshield wiper switch is placed in the
AUTO mode, use caution in the following
situations to avoid any injury to the
hands or other parts of the body:
- Do not touch the upper end of the
windshield glass facing the rain sensor.
- Do not wipe the upper end of the
windshield glass with a damp or wet
cloth.

--- Page 174 ---
Features of your vehicle - Do not put pressure on the windshield
glass.
CAUTION
- When washing the vehicle, set the
wiper switch in the OFF position to
stop the auto wiper operation.
The wiper may operate and be damaged if the switch is set in the AUTO
mode while washing the vehicle.
- Do not remove the sensor cover
located on the upper end of the passenger side windshield glass. Damage
to system parts could occur and may
not be covered by your vehicle warranty.
- When starting the vehicle in winter,
set the wiper switch in the OFF position. Otherwise, wipers may operate
and ice may damage the windshield
wiper blades. Always remove all snow
and ice and defrost the windshield
properly prior to operating the windshield wipers.
- When tinting the windshield, be careful of any fluid getting into the sensor
located in the top center of the front
windshield. It may damage the related
parts.
Operating windshield washers
1. Move the wiper speed control switch
to the OFF position.
2.Pull the lever gently toward you to
spray washer fluid on the windshield
Wipers and washers
and to run the wipers 1-3 cycles. Use
this function when the windshield is
dirty. The spray and wiper operation
will continue until you release the
lever.
If the washer does not work, check the
washer fluid level. If the fluid level is not
sufficient, you will need to add appropriate non-abrasive windshield washer
fluid to the washer reservoir.
The reservoir filer neck is located in the
front of the engine compartment on the
passenger side.
CAUTION
To prevent possible damage to the
washer pump, do not operate the
washer when the fluid reservoir is
empty.
WARNING
Do not use the washer in freezing temperatures without first warming the
windshield with the defrosters; the
washer solution could freeze on the
windshield and obscure your vision.
CAUTION
- To prevent possible damage to the
wipers or windshield, do not operate
the wipers when the windshield is dry.
- To prevent damage to the wiper
blades, do not use gasoline, kerosene,
paint thinner, or other solvents on or
near them.
- To prevent damage to the wiper arms
and other components, do not
attempt to move the wipers manually.
- To prevent possible damage to the
wipers and washer system, use anti-

--- Page 175 ---
Features of your vehicle
freezing washer fluids in the winter
season or cold weather.
Operating rear window wiper and
washer switch
The rear window wiper and washer
switch is located at the end of the wiper
and washer switch lever.
- Turn the switch to the desired position
to operate the rear wiper and washer.
- HI - Normal wiper operation
- LO - Intermittent wiper operation
- OFF - Wiper is not in operation
- Push the lever away from you to
spray rear washer fluid and to run the
rear wipers several times.
The spray and wiper operation will continue until you release the lever.
When the front wiper is activated and
the gear is switched to R (Reverse) position, the rear wiper will be activated once
to provide better visibility.
Wipers and washers
Heated washer nozzle (if
equipped)
The heated washer nozzle function
defreezes the washer nozzles in freezing
weather.
The heated washer nozzle will turn on
and off automatically when the ignition
switch or ENGINE START/STOP button is
in ON position or when the engine is
running in following conditions:
- Turns ON when the outside temperature is below 5 °C, and OFF when it is
over 10 °C.
- The washer fluid defreezing speed
may be slower when the ignition
switch or ENGINE START/STOP button is in ON position, than compared
to when the engine is running.
- When the ignition switch or ENGINE
START/STOP button is in ON position,
after approximately 20 minutes of
operation, the system will turn off
automatically to prevent possible battery discharge.
- After the engine is running, the
washer fluid will defrost approximately after 5 ~ 10 minutes.
- If the engine has been started within
the operating temperature, the
heated nozzle remains ON even
approximately after 20 minutes.
NOTICE
The heated washer nozzle may not function properly under following conditions:
- The washer fluid in the washer reservoir is frozen.
- Outside temperature sensor is malfunctioning.

--- Page 176 ---
Features of your vehicle Welcome system
Welcome system (if equipped)
The welcome system is a function that
illuminates the surroundings or the interior when the driver approaches or exits
the vehicle.
Door handle lamp (if equipped)
Interior light
When the interior light switch is in the
DOOR position and all doors (and liftgate) are locked and closed, the room
lamp will come on for 30 seconds if any
of the following occurs:
- With the smart key system
- When the door unlock button is
pressed on the smart key.
- When the button of the outside
door handle is pressed.
At this time, if you press the door lock
button, the lamps will turn off immediately.
When all the doors (and liftgate) are
closed and locked, the door handle lamp
will come on for about 15 seconds if any
of the below is performed.
- When the door unlock button is
pressed on the smart key.
- When the button of the outside door
handle is pressed.
- When the vehicle is approached with
the smart key in possession.
Headlamp (headlamp) escort
function
The headlamps (and/or tailamps)
remain on for approximately 5 minutes
after the ignition key is removed or
turned to the ACC or LOCK position.
However, if the driver's door is opened
and closed, the headlamps are turned
off after 15 seconds.
The headlamps can be turned off by
pressing the lock button on the transmitter or smart key twice or turning off the
light switch from the headlamp or Auto
light position.

--- Page 177 ---
Features of your vehicle
Interior lights
This vehicle is equipped with lights
throughout the vehicle to illuminate the
interior.
CAUTION
Do not use the interior lights for
extended periods when the engine is not
running.
It may cause battery discharge.
WARNING
Do not use the interior lights when driving in the dark. Accidents could happen
because the view may be obscured by
interior lights.
Automatic turn off function
The interior lights automatically turn off
approximately 20 minutes after the
ENGINE START/STOP button is turned
off, if the lights are in the ON position.
If your vehicle is equipped with the theft
alarm system, the interior lights automatically turn off approximately 5 seconds after the system is armed.
Interior lights
Map lamp
Type A
Type B
- Press the lens (1) to turn ON the map
lamp.
To turn the map lamp OFF press the
lens (1) again.
僅 (2): DOOR mode
- The map lamp and room lamp
come on when a door is opened.
The lamps go out after approximately 30 seconds.
- The map lamp and room lamp
come on for approximately 30 seconds when doors are unlocked with
a smart key as long as the doors
are not opened.
- The map lamp and room lamp will
stay on for approximately 20 minutes if a door is opened with the
ENGINE START/STOP button in the
ACC or OFF position.
- The map lamp and room lamp will
stay on continuously if the door is
opened with the ENGINE START/
STOP button in the ON position.
- The map lamp and room lamp will
go out immediately if the ENGINE

--- Page 178 ---
Features of your vehicle START/STOP button is changed to
the ON position or all doors are
locked.
- To turn off the DOOR mode, press
the DOOR button (2) once again
(not pressed).
僅 (3): Press this switch to turn the
front and rear room lamps on and off.
NOTICE
The DOOR mode and ROOM mode can
not be selected at a time.
Room lamp (if equipped)
Press the switch to turn the room lamp
on and off.
Personal lamp (if equipped)
Press the switch to turn the room lamp
on and off.
Luggage room lamp
僅 : The lamp will always turn on
when the liftgate is opened/closed.
僅 : The lamp is on when the liftgate
is opened, and off when the liftgate is
closed.
僅 : The lamp will always turn off
when the liftgate is opened/closed.
Interior lights
The luggage room lamp comes on when
the liftgate is opened.
CAUTION
The luggage room lamp comes on as
long as the liftgate opens. To prevent
unnecessary charging system drain,
close the liftgate securely after using the
luggage room.
Vanity mirror lamp (if equipped)
Push the switch to turn the light on or
off.
僅 : The lamp will turn on if this button is pressed.
僅 : The lamp will turn off if this button
is pressed.
CAUTION
Vanity mirror lamp
Always close the lid of the vanity mirror
in the off position when the vanity mirror
lamp is not in use. If the sun visor is
closed without the lamp off, it may discharge the battery or damage the sun
visor.

--- Page 179 ---
Features of your vehicle
Climate control system
Glove box lamp
The glove box lamp comes on when the
glove box is opened.
NOTICE
To prevent unnecessary charging system drain, close the glove box securely
after using the glove box.
Climate control system
The climate control system uses cooling
and heating to help maintain a pleasant
environment inside the vehicle.
System operation
Ventilation
1. Set the mode to the position.
2.Set the air intake control to the outside (fresh) air position.
3.Set the temperature control to the
desired position.
4.Set the fan speed control to the
desired speed.
Heating
1. Set the mode to the position.
2.Set the air intake control to the outside (fresh) air position.
3.Set the temperature control to the
desired position.
4.Set the fan speed control to the
desired speed.
5.If dehumidified heating is desired,
turn the air conditioning system on.
- If the windshield fogs up, set the
mode to the or position.
Operation tips
- To keep dust or unpleasant fumes
from entering the vehicle through the
ventilation system, temporarily set the
air intake control to the recirculated
air position. Be sure to return the control to the fresh air position when the
irritation has passed to keep fresh air
in the vehicle. This will help keep the
driver alert and comfortable.

--- Page 180 ---
Features of your vehicle - Air for the heating/cooling system is
drawn in through the griles just at the
base of the windshield. Care should
be taken that these are not blocked
by leaves, snow, ice or other obstructions.
- To prevent fog from forming on the
inside of the windshield:
- Set the air intake control to the
fresh air position and the fan speed
to the desired position.
- Turn on the air conditioning system, and adjust the temperature
control to desired temperature.
Air conditioning (A/C)
Al Kia air conditioning systems are filed
with R-1234yf refrigerant.
1. Start the vehicle. Press the A/C button.
2.Set the mode to the position.
3.Set the air intake control to the outside-air or recirculated air position.
4.Adjust the fan speed control and temperature control to maintain maximum comfort.
CAUTION
- The refrigerant system should only be
serviced by trained and certified technicians to insure proper and safe
operation.
- The refrigerant system should be serviced in a well-ventilated place.
- The air conditioning evaporator (cooling coil) shall never be repaired or
replaced with one removed from a
used or salvaged vehicle and new
replacement MAC evaporators shall
be certified (and labeled) as meeting
SAE Standard J2842.
Climate control system
CAUTION
Excessive air conditioning use
When using the air conditioning system,
monitor the temperature gauge closely
while driving up hils or in heavy traffic
when outside temperatures are high. Air
conditioning system operation may
cause vehicle overheating. Continue to
use the blower fan but turn the air conditioning system off if the temperature
gauge indicates vehicle overheating.
CAUTION
The air conditioning system should only
be used with the windows and sunroof
closed to prevent condensation inside
the vehicle that may cause damage to
electrical components.
Air conditioning system operation tips
- If the vehicle has been parked in
direct sunlight during hot weather,
open the windows for a short time to
let the hot air inside the vehicle
escape.
- To help reduce moisture inside of the
windows on rainy or humid days,
decrease the humidity inside the vehicle by operating the air conditioning
system.
- During air conditioning system operation, you may occasionally notice a
slight change in vehicle speed as the
air conditioning compressor cycles.
This is a normal characteristic of system operation.
- To ensure maximum system performance, the air conditioning system
should be run for a few minutes each
month.

--- Page 181 ---
Features of your vehicle
- When using the air conditioning system, you may notice clear water dripping (or even puddling) on the ground
under the passenger side of the vehicle. This is a normal characteristic of
system operation.
- Operating the air conditioning system
in the recirculated air position provides maximum cooling; however,
continual operation in this mode may
cause the air inside the vehicle to
become stale.
- During cooling operation, you may
occasionally notice a misty air flow
because of rapid cooling and humid
air intake. This is a normal characteristic of system operation.
Climate control air filter
The climate control air filter installed
behind the glove box filters the dust or
other pollutants that come into the vehicle from the outside through the heating
and air conditioning system.
A: Outside air
B: Recirculated air
C: Climate control air filter
D: Blower
E: Evaporator core
F: Heater core
If dust or other pollutants accumulate in
the filter over a period of time, the air
flow from the air vents may decrease.
This leads to moisture accumulating on
the inside of the windshield even when
the outside (fresh) air position is
Climate control system
selected. If this happens, have the climate control air filter replaced by an
authorized Kia dealer.
NOTICE
- Replace the filter according to the
Maintenance Schedule. If the vehicle
is being driven in severe conditions
such as dusty or rough roads, more
frequent air conditioner filter inspections and changes are required.
- When the air flow rate suddenly
decreases, have the system checked
by an authorized Kia dealer.
Air conditioning refrigerant label
* The actual air conditioning refrigerant
label in the vehicle may differ from the
illustration.
Each symbol and specification on the air
conditioning refrigerant label is represented below:
1. Classification of refrigerant
2.Amount of refrigerant
3.Classification of Compressor lubricant
4.Caution
5.Flammable Refrigerant
6.Registered technician to service Air
Conditioning system
You can find out which air conditioning
refrigerant is applied your vehicle at the
label inside of the engine compartment.
Refer to "Refrigerant label" on page 9-10
for more detail on the location of air conditioning refrigerant label.

--- Page 182 ---
Features of your vehicle Climate control system
Checking the amount of air conditioner refrigerant and compressor lubricant
When the amount of refrigerant is low,
the performance of the air conditioning
is reduced. Overfiling also has a negative impact on the air conditioning system.
Therefore, if abnormal operation is
found, have the system inspected by an
authorized Kia dealer.
viced by trained and certified technicians.
It is important that the correct type and
amount of oil and refrigerant are used.
Al refrigerants should be reclaimed with
proper equipment. Venting refrigerants
directly to the atmosphere is harmful to
individuals and environment. Failure to
heed these warnings can lead to serious
injuries.
WARNING
The oil and refrigerant in your vehicle's
air conditioning system is under very
high pressure. If proper service procedures are not followed, an explosion
may result. To reduce the risk of serious
injury or death, the air conditioning system in your vehicle should only be serviced by trained and certified
technicians.
CAUTION
It is important that the correct type and
amount of oil and refrigerant is used,
otherwise damage to the vehicle may
occur. To prevent damage, the air conditioning system in your vehicle should
only be serviced by trained and certified
technicians.
WARNING
Vehicles equipped with R-1234yf*
Since the refrigerant is mildly flammable
and operated at high pressure, the air
conditioning system should only be ser-

--- Page 183 ---
msteye lortros stemilb lsมกรM

Features of your vehicle
Manual climate control system
pleasant environment inside the vehicle.
1 Fan speed control knob
2 Front windshield defroster button
3 Rear window defroster button
4 Air conditioning (A/C) button (if equipped)
5 Air intake control button
6 Mode selection button
7 Temperature control knob
A CAUTION
Operating the blower without the engine
running could drain the battery. Operate
the blower only when the engine is running.
The manual climate control system uses cooling and heating to help maintain a
A/C
005031365N
Manual climate control system

--- Page 184 ---
metaya lottnos etsmilo IsunsM

Features of your vehicle
Heating and air conditioning
1. Start the engine.
2. Set the mode to the desired position.
For improving the effectiveness of heating and cooling;
• Heating: ar
• Cooling: →
3. Set the temperature control to the desired position.
4. Set the air intake control to the outside (fresh) air position.
5. Set the fan speed control to the desired speed.
If air conditioning is desired, turn the air conditioning system on.
Manual climate control system
A
- 111

--- Page 185 ---
Features of your vehicle
Mode selection
The mode selection buttons control the
direction of the air flow through the ventilation system.
Air can be directed to the floor, dashboard outlets, or windshield. Five symbols are used to represent Face, Bi-
Level, Floor, Floor-Defrost and Defrost
air position.
Face-Level (B, D, F)
Air flow is directed toward the upper
body and face. Additionally, each outlet
can be controlled to direct the air discharged from the outlet.
Bi-Level (B, C, D, E, F)
Air flow is directed towards the face and
the floor.
Floor-Level (A, C, D, E, F)
Most of the air flow is directed to the
floor, with a small amount of the air
being directed to the windshield, side
window defrosters and side air vents.
Floor/Defrost-Level (A, C, D, E, F)
Most of the air flow is directed to the
floor and the windshield with a small
amount directed to the side window
defrosters and side air vents.
Defrost-Level (A, D)
Most of the air flow is directed to the
windshield with a small amount of air
directed to the side window defrosters
and side air vents.
Manual climate control system
Instrument panel vents
You can adjust the direction of air delivered from these vents using the vent
control lever as shown.
To close the vent, push the air vent lever
in the opposite direction of the passenger.
To open the vent, push the air vent lever
in the same direction of the passenger.
Temperature control
The temperature control knob allows
you to control the temperature of the air
flowing from the ventilation system.
To change the air temperature in the
passenger compartment, turn the knob
to the right for warm and hot air or to
the left for cooler air.
NOTICE
When starting the vehicle in cold
weather a more efficient way to heat the
passenger compartment is to do the following.

--- Page 186 ---
Features of your vehicle - Turn off or lower the blower, right
after starting the engine.
- Engine temperature is still low and the
air flow from the heater is still cold.
- After a few minutes of engine warm
up, turn on or set the fan to a higher
level and adjust the temperature setting to hot.
Controlling air intake
The air intake control is used to select
the outside (fresh) air position or recirculated air position.
Without outside air position button
To change the air intake control position.
- Push the desired control button
Recirculated air position
The indicator light on the button appears when the recirculated air position is selected.
With the recirculated air position
selected, air from the passenger compartment will be drawn through the
heating system and heated or cooled
according to the function selected.
Outside (fresh) air position
The indicator light on the button will turn off when the outside (fresh) air position is
selected.
With the outside (fresh) air position
selected, air enters the vehicle from out-
Manual climate control system
side and is heated or cooled according
to the function selected.
NOTICE
Prolonged operation of the heater in the
recirculated air position (without air conditioning selected) may cause fogging of
the windshield and side windows, and
the air within the passenger compartment may become stale.
In addition, prolonged use of the air conditioning with the recirculated air position selected will result in excessively dry
air in the passenger compartment.
WARNING
- Continuously using the climate control
system in the recirculated air position
may allow humidity to increase inside
the vehicle, which may fog the glass
and obscure visibility.
- Do not sleep in a vehicle with the air
conditioning or heating system on. It
may cause serious harm or death due
to a drop in the oxygen level and/or
body temperature.
- Continuously using the climate control
system in the recirculated air position
can cause drowsiness or sleepiness,
and loss of vehicle control. Set the air
intake control to the outside (fresh) air
position as much as possible while
driving.

--- Page 187 ---
Features of your vehicle
Manual climate control system
Controlling fan speed
The fan speed control knob allows you
to control the fan speed of the air flowing from the ventilation system.
The ENGINE START/STOP button must
be in the ON position for fan operation.
To change the fan speed:
- Turn it right for higher speed, or turn
it left for lower speed.
Turning off the blowers
To turn off the blowers:
- Turn the fan speed control knob to
the "0" position.
Air conditioning (A/C)
- Press the A/C button to turn the air
conditioning system on (indicator light
will appear).
- Press the button again to turn the air
conditioning system off.

--- Page 188 ---
Features of your vehicle Automatic climate control system
Automatic climate control system
The automatic climate control system uses cooling and heating to help maintain a
pleasant environment inside the vehicle.
Type A (button)
Type B (control panel)
1 Driver's temperature control knob
2 Passenger's temperature control knob
3 AUTO (automatic control) button
4 OFF button
5 Fan speed control button
6 Mode selection button
7 Front windshield defroster button
8 Rear window defroster button
9 SYNC button
10 Air intake control button
11 Air conditioning (A/C) button
12 Front glass heater (if equipped)
13 Infotainment/climate control mode
switching button

--- Page 189 ---
Features of your vehicle
NOTICE
Operating the blower when the ignition
switch is in the ON position could cause
the battery to discharge. Operate the
blower when the engine is running.
Using the infotainment/climate
switchable controller control
panel (For Type B)
Press the button on the switchable controller to switch between infotainment
system or climate control panel.
Press and hold the button to select the
default mode for the control panel.
Switching between panels
Infotainment control panel
Climate control panel
Press the button on the switchable controller to select the desired control panel.
Automatic climate control system
The selected control panel icon will
appear and the control panel will be
changed.
- The knob display will appear according to the selected control panel
mode.
- When the vehicle is in the ACC position, only the infotainment system will
be activated.
Setting the default mode
Press and hold the button to select the
default mode for the control panel.
- After the setting, the control panel will
return to the default mode after a certain period of time even if the control
panel is switched to the different
mode.
- If the mode is set to 'OFF', the control
panel will display the mode used
recently.

--- Page 190 ---
Features of your vehicle Heating and air conditioning
automatically
1. Press the AUTO button.
The modes, fan speeds, air intake and
air-conditioning will be controlled
automatically by setting the temperature.
Type A (button)
Type B (control panel)
You can control the air flow in three
stages by pushing the AUTO button
during automatic operation.
For Type A (button)
Level Indicator LCD Display Air flow
High 2~8
Medium 1~6
Low 1~4
Automatic climate control system
For Type B (control panel)
Level Indicator LCD Display Air flow
High 2~8
Medium 1~6
Low 1~4
- HIGH: Provide rapid air conditioning and heating with strong wind
- MEDIUM: Provide air conditioning
and heating with medium strength
wind
- LOW: It is suitable for drivers who
prefer to soft wind.When you select
the temperature to HI or LO in
AUTO mode, the wind strength is
automatically set to 'HIGH'.
2.Set the temperature control switch to
the desired temperature.
Type A (button)
Type B (control panel)
The climate control system is automatically controlled according to the
desired temperature.

--- Page 191 ---
Features of your vehicle
Automatic climate control system
- To turn the automatic operation off,
select any of the following buttons or
switches:
- Mode selection button
- Air conditioning (A/C) button
- Front windshield defroster button
(Press the button one more time to
deselect the front windshield
defroster function. The 'AUTO' sign
will appear on the information display once again.)
- Fan speed control switch
The selected function will be controlled manually while other functions operate automatically.
- For your convenience and to improve
the effectiveness of the climate control, use the AUTO button and set the
temperature to 72 °F (22 °C).
NOTICE
Do not place anything over the sensor
located on the instrument panel to
ensure better control of the heating and
cooling system.

--- Page 192 ---
Features of your vehicle Automatic climate control system
Heating and air conditioning manually
The heating and cooling system can be controlled manually by pressing buttons
other than the AUTO button.
In this case, the system works sequentially according to the order of buttons selected.
1. Start the vehicle.
2.Set the mode to the desired position.
For improving the effectiveness of heating and cooling;
- Heating:
- Cooling:
3.Set the temperature control to the desired position.
4.Set the air intake control to the outside (fresh) air position.
5.Set the fan speed control to the desired speed.
If air conditioning is desired, turn the air conditioning system on.
Press the AUTO button in order to convert to fuly automatic control of the system.

--- Page 193 ---
Features of your vehicle
Mode selection
The mode selection button controls the
direction of the air flow through the ventilation system.
Type A / B
The air flow outlet ports are switched in
the following sequence:
Face-Level (B, D, F)
Air flow is directed toward the upper
body and face. Additionally, each outlet
can be controlled to direct the air discharged from the outlet.
Bi-Level (B, C, D, E, F)
Air flow is directed towards the face and
the floor.
Floor-Level (A, C, D, E, F)
Most of the air flow is directed to the
floor, with a small amount of the air
being directed to the windshield, side
window defrosters and side air vents.
Floor/Defrost-Level (A, C, D, E, F)
Most of the air flow is directed to the
floor and the windshield with a small
amount directed to the side window
defrosters and side air vents.
Defrost-Level (A, D)
Most of the air flow is directed to the
windshield with a small amount of air
Automatic climate control system
directed to the side window defrosters
and side air vents.
Instrument panel vents
You can adjust the direction of air delivery from these vents using the vent control lever as shown.
To close the vent, push the air vent lever
in the opposite direction of the passenger.
To open the vent, push the air vent lever
in the same direction of the passenger.
Temperature control
Type A (button)
Type B (control panel)

--- Page 194 ---
Features of your vehicle The temperature will increase to the
maximum (HI) by turning the knob al
the way to the right.
The temperature will decrease to the
minimum (Lo) by turning the knob all the
way to the left.
When turning the knob, the temperature
will increase or decrease by 1 °F/0.5 °C.
When set to the lowest temperature setting, the air conditioning will operate
continuously.
NOTICE
When starting the vehicle in cold
weather using manual temperature control, operate the system in the following
method to improve heating.
- Turn off or lower the blower, right
after starting the engine.
- allow the engine to warm up during
this time since the air flow from the
heater is still cold.
- After a few minutes of engine warm
up, turn on or set the fan to a higher
level and adjust the temperature setting to hot.
Adjusting the driver and passenger side temperature equally
Automatic climate control system
1. Press the "SYNC" button to adjust the
driver and passenger side temperature equally.
The passenger side temperature will
be set to the same temperature as the
driver side temperature.
2.Turn the driver side temperature control knob. The driver and passenger
side temperature will be adjusted
equally.
3.If you rotate the passenger's temperature control knob, the SYNC button is
turned off and the passenger side
temperature can be operated individually.
Adjusting the driver and passenger side temperature individually
Press the "SYNC" button again to adjust
the driver and passenger side temperature individually. The button indicator
will turn off.
Changing temperature scale
- To change the temperature display
from Fahrenheit to Celsius and vice
versa, press the OFF button, while
pressing the AUTO button for 3 seconds or more.
The display will change from Centigrade
to Fahrenheit, or from Fahrenheit to
Centigrade. If the battery has been discharged or disconnected, the temperature mode display will reset to
Fahrenheit.

--- Page 195 ---
Features of your vehicle
Controlling air intake
This is used to select the outside (fresh)
air position or recirculated air position.
With outside air position button
Without outside air position button
To change the air intake control position:
- Push the desired control button.
Outside (fresh) air position
Type A Type B
With the outside (fresh) air position
selected, air enters the vehicle from outside and is heated or cooled according
to the function selected.
Recirculated air position
With the recirculated air position selected, air from the
passenger compartment will
be drawn through the heating
system and heated or cooled according
to the function selected.
Prolonged operation of the heater in the
recirculated air position (without air conditioning selected) may cause fogging of
Automatic climate control system
the windshield and side windows and
make the air in the passenger compartment stale.
In addition, prolonged use of the air conditioning with the recirculated air position selected will result in excessively dry
air in the passenger compartment.
Controlling fan speed
The fan speed can be set to the desired
speed by operating the fan speed control button.
To change the fan speed:
- Press button right for higher speed, or
press button left for lower speed.
Type A (button)
Type B (control panel)
To turn the fan speed control off:
- Press the front blower OFF button.

--- Page 196 ---
Features of your vehicle Air conditioning (A/C)
- Press the A/C button to turn the air
conditioning system on (indicator light
will appear).
- Press the button again to turn the air
conditioning system off.
WARNING
Reduced Visibility
Continuous use of the climate control
system in the recirculated air position
may allow humidity to increase inside
the vehicle, which may fog the glass and
obscure visibility.
WARNING
Recirculated Air
Continued use of the climate control system in the recirculated air position can
cause drowsiness or sleepiness, and loss
of vehicle control. Set the air intake control to the outside (fresh) air position as
much as possible while driving.
WARNING
Sleeping with A/C on
Do not sleep in a vehicle with the air conditioning or heating on as this may
cause serious harm or death due to a
drop in the oxygen level and/or body
temperature.
Automatic climate control system
Turning off the front air climate
control
Type A (button)
Type B (control panel)
- Press the OFF button to turn off the
front and rear air climate control system.
However, you can still operate the
mode and air intake buttons as long
as the ENGINE START/STOP button is
in the ON position.

--- Page 197 ---
Features of your vehicle
Windshield defrosting and
defogging
When the windshield is covered with
frost or moisture, the front view is
blurred, you should remove the frost
and moisture.
WARNING
Windshield heating
Do not use the or position
during cooling operation in extremely
humid weather. The difference between
the temperature of the outside air and
the windshield could cause the outer
surface of the windshield to fog up,
causing loss of visibility. In this case, set
the mode selection to the position
and fan speed control to the lower
speed.
- For maximum defrosting, set the temperature control to the extreme right/
hot position and the fan speed control
to the highest speed.
- If warm air to the floor is desired while
defrosting or defogging, set the mode
to the floor-defrost position.
- Before driving, clear all snow and ice
from the windshield, rear window,
outside rear view mirrors, and all side
windows.
- Clear all snow and ice from the hood
and air inlet in the cowl grill to
improve heater and defroster efficiency and to reduce the probability
of fogging up the inside of the windshield.
Windshield defrosting and defogging
Defogging inside windshield
Manual type
Automatic type A (button)
Automatic type B (control panel)
1. Set the fan speed to the desired position.

--- Page 198 ---
Features of your vehicle 2.Select desired temperature.
3.Press the defroster button ( ).
4.The outside (fresh) air position will be
selected automatically and the air
conditioning will turn on according to
the detected ambient temperature.
If the air conditioning and outside (fresh)
air position are not selected automatically, adjust the corresponding button
manually. If the position is
selected, lower fan speed is adjusted to
a higher fan speed.
Defrosting outside windshield
Manual type
Automatic type A (button)
Windshield defrosting and defogging
Automatic type B (control panel)
1. Set the fan speed to the highest position.
2.Set the temperature to the extreme
hot (HI) position.
3.Press the defroster button ( ).
4.The outside (fresh) air position will be
selected automatically and the air
conditioning will turn on according to
the detected ambient temperature.

--- Page 199 ---
Features of your vehicle
Auto defogging system (if
equipped)
Auto defogging helps reduce the possibility of fogging up the inside of the
windshield by automatically sensing the
moisture on inside the windshield.
The auto defogging system operates when the heater or air conditioning is on.
When the Auto Defogging System operates, the indicator will appear.
If a high amount of humidity is detected
in the vehicle, the Auto Defogging System will be enabled.
The following steps will be performed
automatically:
1. The A/C button will turn ON.
2.The air intake control will change to
Fresh mode under low outside temperature.
3.The mode will be changed to defrost
to direct airflow to the windshield.
4.The fan speed will be increased.
To cancel or reset the Auto Defogging
System
Press the front windshield defroster button for 3 seconds when the ignition
switch or ENGINE START/STOP button is
in the ON position.
When the Auto Defogging System is
canceled, defrost button indicator will
blink 3 times.
When the Auto Defogging System is
reset, defrost button indicator will blink 6
times without a signal.
Windshield defrosting and defogging
NOTICE
- When the air conditioning is turned on
by Auto defogging system, if you try
to turn off the air conditioning, the
indicator will blink 3 times and the air
conditioning will not be turned off.
- To maintain the effectiveness and
efficiency of the Auto Defogging System, do not select Recirculation mode
while the system is operating.
- When the Auto Defogging System is
operating, the fan speed adjustment
knob, the temperature adjustment
knob, and the air intake control button
are all disabled.
NOTICE
Do not remove the sensor cover located
on the upper end of the driver side windshield glass.
Damage to system parts could occur
and may not be covered by your vehicle
warranty.
Defroster
The vehicle is equipped with a defroster
for removing frost or fog from the rear
window.
CAUTION
Conductors
To prevent damage to the conductors
bonded to the inside surface of the rear
window, never use sharp instruments or
window cleaners containing abrasives to
clean the window.
If you want to defrost and defog the
front windshield, refer to "Windshield
defrosting and defogging" on page 4-
124.

--- Page 200 ---
Features of your vehicle Operating rear window defroster
The defroster heats the window to
remove frost, fog and thin ice from the
rear window, while the engine is on.
If there is heavy accumulation of snow
on the rear window, brush it off before
operating the rear defroster.
To activate the rear window defroster:
- Press the rear window defroster button located in the heater control
panel.
The indicator on the rear window
defroster button appears when the
defroster is ON.
The rear window defroster automatically turns off after approximately 20
minutes or when the ENGINE START/
STOP button is turned off.
To turn off the defroster:
- Press the rear window defroster button again.
Outside mirror defroster (if
equipped)
If your vehicle is equipped with the outside mirror defrosters, they will operate
at the same time you turn on the rear
window defroster.
Defogging logic (if equipped)
To reduce the possibility of fogging up
the inside of the windshield, the air
intake or air conditioning is controlled
automatically according to certain conditions such as or position.
Windshield defrosting and defogging
To cancel automatic defogging logic or
return to the automatic defogging logic,
do the following.
Canceling/returning automatic
defogging logic
1. Turn the ENGINE START/STOP button
to the ON position.
2.Press the defroster button ( ).
3.While pressing the air conditioning (A/
C) button, press the air intake control
button at least 5 times within 3 seconds.
The recirculation indicator blinks 3
times in 0.5 second of intervals. It indicates that the defogging logic is canceled or returned to the programmed
status.
If the battery has been discharged or
disconnected, it resets to the defog logic
status.

--- Page 201 ---
Features of your vehicle
Canceling/returning automatic
defogging logic
1. Turn the ENGINE START/STOP button
to the ON position.
2.Press the defroster button ( ).
3.While pressing the air conditioning (A/
C) button, press the air intake control
button at least 5 times within 3 seconds.
The recirculation indicator blinks 3
times in 0.5 second of intervals. It indicates that the defogging logic is canceled or returned to the programmed
status.
If the battery has been discharged or
disconnected, it resets to the defog logic
status.
Front glass heater
Front glass heater (if
equipped)
The front glass heater heats the window
to remove frost, fog and thin ice from
the interior and exterior of the front window, while the engine is running.
If there is heavy accumulation of snow
on the front window, brush it off before
operating the front glass heater.
To activate the front glass heater:
- Press the front glass heater button.
The indicator on the front glass heater
button illuminates when the front
glass heater is ON.
The front glass heater automatically
turns off after approximately 15 minutes
or when the ignition switch or ENGINE
START/STOP button is turned off. However, if you press the button again after
the heater is turned off automatically
after 15 minutes, the heater will stay on
only for approximately 5 minutes. To
turn off the front glass heater while it is
operating, press the front glass heater
button again.

--- Page 202 ---
Features of your vehicle Scheduled Ventilation Control
The Scheduled Ventilation Control
releases hot air in the vehicle to lower
cabin temperature before getting in the
vehicle.
Depending on the outside ambient temperature, the blower is operated for 5 to
15 minutes while the vehicle is parked.
Turning Schedule Ventilation
Control On or Off
Turning Schedule Ventilation Control On
or Off The Schedule Ventilation Control
can be turned on and off by selecting
'Setup → Vehicle Settings → Automatic
Ventilation → Scheduled Ventilation'
from the infotainment system screen.
Also, the starting time can be set within
24 hours. Schedule Ventilation Control
operates only once when the feature is
set.
Scheduled Ventilation Control
Storage compartment
These compartments can be used to
store small items required by the driver
or passengers.
- To avoid possible theft, do not leave
valuables in the storage compartment.
- Always keep the storage compartment covers closed while driving. Do
not attempt to place so many items in
the storage compartment that the
storage compartment cover cannot
close securely.
WARNING
Flammable materials
Do not store glasses, gas lighter, portable battery, canned beverage, spray can,
propane cylinder, cosmetic tube or other
flammable/explosive materials in the
vehicle. These items may catch fire and/
or explode if the vehicle is exposed to
hot temperatures for extended periods.
Center console storage
To open the center console storage:
- Pull up the lever.

--- Page 203 ---
Features of your vehicle
Glove box
To open the glove box:
- Push the lever and the glove box will
automatically open.
Close the glove box after use.
WARNING
Glove box
To reduce the risk of injury in an accident or sudden stop, always keep the
glove box door closed while driving.
An open glove box door can cause serious injury to the passenger in an accident, even if the passenger is wearing a
seat belt.
CAUTION
Do not keep food in the glove box for a
long time.
NOTICE
If the temperature control switch is in
the warm or hot position, warm or hot air
will flow into the glove box.
Interior features
Interior features
There are various features inside the
vehicle for the convenience of the occupants.
Cup holder
Front
Cups or small beverage cans may be
placed in the cup holders.
WARNING
Hot liquids
Do not place uncovered cups with hot
liquid in the cup holder while the vehicle
is in motion. If the hot liquid spils, you
may burn yourself. Such a burn to the
driver could lead to loss of control of the
vehicle.
WARNING
Keep cans or bottles out of direct sun
light and do not put them in a vehicle
that is heated up. It may explode.
CAUTION
- Keep your drinks sealed while driving
to prevent spilling your drink. If liquid
spils, it may get into the vehicle's
electrical/electronic system and damage electrical/electronic parts.
- When cleaning spiled liquids, do not
use heat to dry the cup holders. This
may damage the cup holder.

--- Page 204 ---
Features of your vehicle Seat warmer (if equipped)
The seat warmer is provided to warm
the front seats during cold weather.
Front seat
With the ignition switch or ENGINE
START/STOP button in the ON position:
- Push either of the buttons to warm
the front and rear seats.
During mild weather or under conditions
where the operation of the seat warmer
is not needed, keep the buttons in the
"OFF" position.
The seat warmer defaults to the OFF
position whenever the ignition switch or
ENGINE START/STOP button is turned
on.
Temperature control (Manual)
- Each time you press the buttons, the
temperature setting of the seat will
change as follows:
- Front seat
- Rear seat
Interior features
Temperature control (Automatic)
The seat warmer starts to automatically
control the seat temperature in order to
prevent low-temperature burns after
being manually turned ON.
You may manually press the button to
increase the seat temperature. However,
it soon returns to the automatic mode
again.
- When pressing the buttons for more
than 1.5 seconds with the seat warmer
operating, the seat warmer will turn
OFF.
NOTICE
With the seat warmer buttons in the ON
position, the heating system in the seat
turns off or on automatically depending
on the seat temperature.
CAUTION
- When cleaning the seats, do not use
an organic solvent such as paint thinner, benzene, alcohol and gasoline.
Doing so may damage the surface of
the heater or seats.
- To prevent overheating the seat
warmer, do not place anything on the
seats that insulates against heat, such
as blankets, cushions or seat covers
while the seat warmer is in operation.
- Do not place heavy or sharp objects
on seats equipped with seat warmers.

--- Page 205 ---
Features of your vehicle
Damage to the seat warming components could occur.
- Do not change the seat cover. It may
damage the seat warmer or air ventilation system.
WARNING
Seat warmer burns
Passengers should use extreme caution
when using seat warmers due to the
possibility of excess heating or burns.
The seat warmer may cause burns even
at low temperatures, especially if used
for long periods of time. In particular, the
driver must exercise extreme care for
the following types of passengers:
1. Infants, children, elderly or handicapped persons, or hospital outpatients
2.Persons with sensitive skin, those
unable to detect heat or pain in parts
of the body that are next to the heaters, or those that burn easily
3.Fatigued individuals
4.Intoxicated individuals
5.Individuals taking medication that can
cause drowsiness or sleepiness
(sleeping pils, cold tablets, etc.)
Interior features
Air ventilation seat (if equipped)
The temperature setting of the seat
changes according to the levers position.
- To ventilate your seat cushion, push
the levers.
Each time you push the levers, the airflow will change as follows:
The seat warmer (with air ventilation)
defaults to the OFF position whenever
the ENGINE START/STOP button is
turned on.
NOTICE
This function is designed to automatically change the temperature setting of
the seat (High -> Low) to maintain maximum comfort inside in case the engine
is stopped by ISG (Idle Stop and Go) system (if equipped).
CAUTION
Seat damage
- When cleaning the seats, do not use
an organic solvent such as paint thinner, benzene, alcohol and gasoline.
Doing so may damage the air ventilation seat.
- Do not place heavy or sharp objects
on the seat. Those things may damage the air ventilation seat.

--- Page 206 ---
Features of your vehicle - Be careful not to spill liquid such as
water or beverages on the seat. If you
spill some liquid, wipe the seat with a
dry towel. Before using the air ventilation seat, dry the seat completely.
Sun visor
Use the sun visor to shield direct light
through the front or side windows.
The actual sun visor lamp in the vehicle
may differ from the illustration.
- To use the sun visor, pull it downward.
- To use the sun visor for the side window, pull it downward, unsnap it from
the bracket (1) and swing it to the side
(2).
- To use the vanity mirror, pull down
the visor and slide the mirror cover
(4). Adjust the sun visor extension forward or backward (3). The ticket
holder (5) is provided for holding a
tolgate ticket.
WARNING
For your safety, do not block your view
when using the sun visor.
NOTICE
Do not put several tickets in the ticket
holder at one time. This could cause
damage to the ticket holder.
Interior features
USB charger (if equipped)
The USB car charger allows drivers to
charge their digital devices such as
smartphones, and PC tablets.
Front
Plug the cable into the USB port, and
charging will begin.
The USB car charger is available with
either the ACC on or the ignition on. We
recommend you connect the USB port
and digital devices with the engine running. See the display screen of the
device to check its charging process
completion. Your smartphone or table
PC could get heated up while charging.
This is no reason to worry, as it doesn't
impact life or functions of the device. For
safety, charging can be stopped if the
battery gets too high where the temperature can negatively affect the
device. Charging some digital devices is
not available or requires special dedicated adapters if their charging methods
don't fit the way the USB car charger
works.
Power Delivery 3.0 is available on the
smart phone or the tablet PC equipped
with fast charging capabilities. It is applicable to digital devices with USB C-type.

--- Page 207 ---
Features of your vehicle
Charging speed is determined according
to the charging specification of the connected digital device.
Rated output:
- Digital device with fast charging :
- 9.0V / Max 3.0A
- Digital devices with normal charging:
- 5.0V / Max 3.0A
CAUTION
- Use the USB car charger with the ignition on. Otherwise, Vehicle battery
can be discharged.
- Use the official USB cable of the manufacturer of the digital device to be
charged.
- Make sure that any foreign object,
drinks, and water do not come into
contact with the USB car charger.
Water or foreign object can damage
the USB charger.
- Do not use devices that exceed current consumption of 2.1 A.
- Do not connect an electrical device
that generates excessive electromagnetic noise to the USB car port. If you
do so, noise can be caused or vehicle
electronic devices can be interrupted
while audio or AV is on.
- If the charger is connected incorrectly,
it can cause serious damage to the
device. Please note that damages due
to incorrect usage are not covered by
warranty service.
Interior features
Power outlet (if equipped)
The power outlet is designed to provide
power for mobile telephones or other
devices designed to operate with vehicle
electrical systems or other devices that
are compatible with the power outlet
and vehicle electrical system.
The devices should draw less than 15
amps with the vehicle on.
NOTICE
- Use the power outlet only when the
vehicle is on and remove the accessory plug after use. Using the accessory plug for prolonged periods of
time with the vehicle off could cause
the battery to discharge.
- Only use 12 V electric accessories
which are less than 15 A in electric
capacity.
- Adjust the air-conditioner or heater to
the lowest operating level when using
the power outlet.
- Close the cover when not in use.
- Some electronic devices can cause
electronic interference when plugged
into a vehicle's power outlet. These
devices may cause excessive audio
static and malfunctions in other electronic systems or devices used in your
vehicle.

--- Page 208 ---
Features of your vehicle - Push the plug in as far as it will go. If
good contact is not made, the plug
may overheat and the fuse may open.
- Plug in battery equipped electronic
devices with reverse current protection. The current from the battery may
flow into the vehicle's electrical/electronic system and cause system malfunction.
WARNING
Electric shock
Do not put a finger or a foreign object
(pen, etc.) into a power outlet and do not
touch with a wet hand. You may get an
electric shock.
Wireless smart phone charging
system (if equipped)
A wireless smart phone charging system
is located in front of the center console.
[A]: Indicator, [B]: Charging pad
Firmly close all doors, and make sure to
turn ON the ignition switch or press the
ENGINE START/STOP button. To start
wireless charging, place the smart
phone equipped with wireless charging
function on the wireless charging pad.
For best wireless charging results, place
the smart phone on the center of the
charging pad.
The wireless charging system is
designed for use with one compatible
smart phone at a time. Please consult
Interior features
your smart phone or its manufacturer to
determine if it is compatible.
WARNING
If any metallic object such as coins is
located between the wireless charging
system and the smart phone, the
charging may be disrupted. Also, the
metallic object may heat up.
Wireless smart phone charging
1. Remove any object on the smart
phone charging pad including the
smart key. If there is any foreign
object on the pad other than a smart
phone, the wireless charging function
may not operate properly.
2.Place the smart phone on the center
of the wireless charging pad.
3.The indicator light will change to
orange once the wireless charging
begins. After the charging is complete, the orange light will change to
green.
4.You can choose to turn the wireless
charging function to either ON or OFF
by selecting the USM on the instrument cluster. (Please refer to "Instrument cluster" on page 4-61 for
details).
If the wireless charging does not work,
gently move your smart phone around
the pad until the charging indicator light
turns yellow. Depending on the smart
phone, the charging indicator light may
not turn green even after the charging is
complete.
If the wireless charging is not functioning properly, the orange light will blink
and flash for ten seconds then turn off.
In such cases, remove the smart phone
from the pad and replace it on the pad

--- Page 209 ---
Features of your vehicle
again, or double check the charging status.
If you leave the smart phone on the
charging pad when the vehicle ignition is
in OFF, the vehicle will alert you through
warning messages and sound (applicable for vehicles with voice guidance
function) after the 'Good bye' function
on the instrument cluster ends.
For some manufacturers' smart phones,
the system may not warn you even
though the smart phone is left on the
wireless charging unit. This is due to the
particular characteristic of the smart
phone and not a malfunction of the
wireless charging.
WARNING
Distracted driving
The driver's primary responsibility is the
safe and legal operation of a vehicle to
protect vehicle occupants and others
from serious injury or death. Driving
while distracted by anything could result
in a loss of vehicle control. Any use of
handheld devices, vehicle systems, or
other equipment that take the driver's
attention away from the driving task is
dangerous.
CAUTION
Liquid in wireless charging system
To prevent liquid from damaging the
wireless smart phone charging system in
your vehicle, be sure not to spill liquid
over the charging system.
CAUTION
Metal in wireless charging system
If any metallic object such as a coin is
located between the wireless charging
system and the smart phone, the
Interior features
charging may be disrupted. Also, the
metallic object may heat up and potentially damage the charging system. If
there is any metallic object between the
smart phone and the charging pad,
immediately remove the smart phone.
Remove the metallic object after it has
cooled down.
CAUTION
- When the interior temperature of the
wireless charging system rises above
a set temperature, the wireless
charging will cease to function. After
the interior temperature drops below
the threshold, the wireless charging
function will resume.
- The wireless charging may not function properly when there is a heavy
accessory cover on the smart phone.
- The wireless charging will stop when
using the wireless smart key search
function to prevent radio wave disruption.
- The wireless charging will stop when
the smart key is moved out of the
vehicle with the vehicle in ON.
- The wireless charging will stop when
any of the doors are opened (applicable for vehicles equipped with smart
keys).
- The wireless charging will stop when
the vehicle is turned OFF.
- The wireless charging will stop when
the smart phone is not in complete
contact with the wireless charging
pad.
- Items equipped with magnetic components such as credit card, telephone card, bankbook or any
transportation ticket may become
damaged during wireless charging.

--- Page 210 ---
Features of your vehicle - Place the smart phone on the center
of the charge pad for best results. The
smart phone may not charge when
placed near the rim of the charging
pad. When the smart phone does get
charged, it may heat up excessively.
- For smart phones without built-in
wireless charging system, an appropriate accessory has to be equipped
in order to use the vehicle's wireless
charging system.
- Certain smart phones may display
messages on a weak current. This is
due to the particular characteristics of
that smart phone, and does not imply
a malfunction of the wireless charging
function.
- The indicator light of some manufacturers' smart phones may still be
orange after the smart phone is fuly
charged. This is due to the particular
characteristic of the smart phone and
not a malfunction of the wireless
charging.
- When any smart phone without a
wireless charging function or a metallic object is placed on the charging
pad, a small noise may sound. This
small noise is due to the vehicle discerning compatibility of the object
placed on the charging pad. It does
not affect your vehicle or the smart
phone in any way.
- The wireless celular phone charging
system may not support certain celular phones, which are not verified for
the Qi specification ( ).
- When placing your smart phone on
the charging pad, position the phone
in the middle of the pad for maximum
efficiency.
If your smart phone is off to the side,
the charging speed may slow down,
Interior features
and in some cases, your phone may
experience higher heat conduction.
- When charging some smart phones
with a self-protection feature, the
wireless charging speed may
decrease, and the charging may stop.
- A smart phone that supports the wireless charging can only be charged
wirelessly.
- The wireless charging pad has an
internal cooling system which can create noise to keep your phone cool
while it charges.
This device complies with part 15
of the FCC Rules
Operation is subject to the following two
conditions:
1. This device may not cause harmful
interference.
2.This device must accept any interference received, including interference
that may cause undesired operation.

--- Page 211 ---
Features of your vehicle
Coat hook (if equipped)
A Coat hook is next to the rear grab handle.
* This actual feature may differ from the
illustration.
CAUTION
Hanging clothing
Do not hang heavy clothes, since they
may damage the hook.
WARNING
Do not hang other objects such as hangers or hard objects except clothes. Also,
do not put heavy, sharp or breakable
objects in the clothing's pockets. In an
accident or when the curtain air bag is
inflated, it may cause vehicle damage or
body injury.
Interior features
Floor mat anchors (if equipped)
When using a floor mat on the front floor
carpet, make sure it attaches to the floor
mat anchors in your vehicle. This keeps
the floor mat from sliding forward.
WARNING
- After market floor mat
- Do not install after market floor
mats that are not capable of being
securely attached to the vehicle's
floor mat anchors.
Unsecured floor mats can interfere
with pedal operation.
- Use floor mats not too thick and
designed to be properly secured on
the floor to avoid the interference with
pedals. Make sure that installing the
floor mats without removing plastic
films on carpets may damage or
break floor mat fix rings, resulting in
the mats to be unsecured.
Especially for a driver's seat, the unsecured mats may cause unintended
acceleration/brake. Ensure to remove
all the plastic films on the carpets
before installing the mats.
The following must be observed when
installing ANY floor mat to the vehicle.
- Ensure that the floor mats are
securely attached to the vehicle's floor
mat anchor(s) before driving the vehicle.

--- Page 212 ---
Features of your vehicle - Do not use ANY floor mat that cannot
be firmly attached to the vehicle's
floor mat anchors.
- Do not stack floor mats on top of one
another (e.g., al-weather rubber mat
on top of a carpeted floor mat). Only a
single floor mat should be installed in
each position.
Luggage net holder
To keep items from shifting in the cargo
area, you can use the 4 holders located
in the cargo area to attach the luggage
net (if equipped), or you can fold the
luggage net into half and attach it
upwards by using the additional 2 holders located on each side.
If you want to purchase them, please
contact an authorized Kia dealer.
CAUTION
To prevent damage to the goods or the
vehicle, be careful when carrying fragile
or bulky objects in the luggage compartment.
WARNING
DO NOT over-stretch the luggage net
and ALWAYS keep your face and body
out of the luggage net's recoil path. Failure to comply with these instructions
Interior features
may result in severe facial injuries. DO
NOT use the luggage net when the strap
has visible signs of wear or damage.
Cargo security screen (if
equipped)
Use the cargo security screen to hide
items stored in the cargo area.
1. Cargo security screen handle
2.Cargo security screen guide
To use the cargo security screen, pull the
handle backward and insert the edges
into the slots.

--- Page 213 ---
Features of your vehicle
When not in use cargo security screen,
follow below steps.
1. Push the guide pin in the direction.
2.Pull the cargo security screen out.
3.Open the luggage board(1) and side
tray cover (2) and keep the cargo
security screen in the tray (3) (if gasoline engine and mini temporary spare
tire equipped in luggage).
WARNING
- Do not place objects on the cargo
security screen. Such objects may
move around inside the vehicle and
possibly injure vehicle occupants
during an accident or when braking.
- Never allow anyone to ride in the luggage compartment. It is designed for
luggage only.
- Maintain the balance of the vehicle
and locate the weight as forward as
possible.
NOTICE
- Since the cargo security screen may
be damaged or malformed, do not put
luggage on it when it is used.
- Pull out the cargo security screen
using the handle in the center to prevent the guide pin from faling out of
the guide.
- The cargo security screen may not
automatically slide back in if the cargo
security screen is not fuly puled out.
Fuly pull it out and then let go.
Exterior features
Exterior features
Roof rack (if equipped)
If the vehicle has a roof rack, you can
load cargo on top of your vehicle.
Type A
Type B
* The actual shape may differ from the
illustration.
Crossbars and fixing components
needed to install the roof rack on your
vehicle may be obtained from an authorized Kia dealer or other qualified shop.
NOTICE
- The crossbars (if equipped) should be
placed in the proper load carrying
positions prior to placing items onto
the roof rack.
- If the vehicle is equipped with a sunroof, be sure not to position cargo
onto the roof rack in such a way that it
could interfere with sunroof operation.
- When the roof rack is not being used
to carry cargo, the crossbars may
need to be repositioned if wind noise
is detected.

--- Page 214 ---
Features of your vehicle Exterior features
CAUTION
- When carrying cargo on the roof rack,
take the necessary precautions to
make sure the cargo does not damage the roof of the vehicle.
- When carrying large objects on the
roof rack, make sure they do not
exceed the overall roof length or
width.
- When you are carrying cargo on the
roof rack, do not operate the sunroof.
(if equipped)
rack and cause damage to your vehicle or others around you.
- To prevent damage or loss of cargo,
FREQUENTLY check to ensure the
cargo is securely fastened to the roof
rack.
WARNING
- The following specification is the maximum weight that can be loaded onto
the roof rack. Distribute the load as
evenly as possible across the crossbars (if equipped) and roof rack and
secure the load firmly.
ROOF LOAD 220 lbs. (100 kg)
EVENLY DISTRIBUTED
Loading cargo or luggage in excess of
the specified weight limit on the roof
rack may damage your vehicle.
- The vehicle center of gravity will be
higher when items are loaded onto
the roof rack. Avoid sudden starts,
braking, sharp turns, abrupt maneuvers or high speeds that may result in
loss of vehicle control or rollover
resulting in an accident.
- Always drive slowly and turn corners
carefuly when carrying items on the
roof rack. Severe wind updrafts,
caused by passing vehicles or natural
causes, can cause sudden upward
pressure on items loaded on the roof
rack. This is especially true when carrying large, flat items such as wood
panels or mattresses. This could
cause the items to fal off the roof

--- Page 215 ---
Features of your vehicle
Infotainment system
NOTICE
If you install an aftermarket HID head
lamp, your vehicle's audio and electronic
device may malfunction.
Using the infotainment/climate
switchable controller
Press the button on the switchable controller to switch between infotainment
system or climate control panel.
Press and hold the button to select the
default mode for the control panel.
Switching between panels
Infotainment control panel
Climate control panel
Press the button on the switchable controller to select the desired control panel.
Infotainment system
The selected control panel icon will
appear and the control panel will be
changed.
- The knob display will appear according to the selected control panel
mode.
- When the vehicle is in the ACC position, only the infotainment system will
be activated.
Setting the default mode
Press and hold the button to select the
default mode for the control panel.
- After the setting, the control panel will
return to the default mode after a certain period of time even if the control
panel is switched to the different
mode.
- If the mode is set to 'OFF', the control
panel will display the mode used
recently.
Audio system
NOTICE
If you install an aftermarket HID headlamp, your vehicle's audio and electronic
device may malfunction.
* If your vehicle is equipped with infotainment system, refer to a separately
supplied manual for detailed information.

--- Page 216 ---
Features of your vehicle Sharkfin antenna
The sharkfin antenna transmits and
receives wireless signals such as AM/FM,
Sirius XM, GNSS, etc.
* The signals which antenna can transmit
and receive vary by the vehicle option.
NOTICE
Avoid adding metallic coatings such as
Ni, Cd, etc. These can degrade the
receiving AM and FM broadcast signals.
USB port
You can use the USB port to plug in an
USB.
CAUTION
Depending on the size, length, or shape
of the USB stick, if you forcibly close the
tray cover, the USB device may be damaged, deformed or the cover may not
reopen as the device is stuck.
When the stick is stuck, forcibly opening
the cover can also cause damage to the
device.
If the USB stick does not fit into the
space, do not close the cover and try
another USB stick with different specifications.
Infotainment system
How vehicle radio works
FM reception
AM and FM radio signals are broadcast
from transmitter towers located around
your city. They are intercepted by the
radio antenna on your vehicle. This signal is then processed by the radio and
sent to your vehicle speakers.
However, in some cases the signal coming to your vehicle may not be strong
and clear.
This can be due to factors, such as the
distance from the radio station, closeness of other strong radio stations or the
presence of buildings, bridges or other
large obstructions in the area.

--- Page 217 ---
Features of your vehicle
AM reception
AM broadcasts can be received at
greater distances than FM broadcasts.
This is because AM radio waves are
transmitted at low frequencies. These
long distance, low frequency radio
waves can follow the curvature of the
earth rather than traveling straight. In
addition, they curve around obstructions
resulting in better signal coverage.
FM radio station
FM broadcasts are transmitted at high
frequencies and do not bend to follow
the earth's surface. Because of this, FM
broadcasts generally begin to fade
within short distances from the station.
Also, FM signals are easily affected by
buildings, mountains, and obstructions.
Infotainment system
This can lead to undesirable or unpleasant listening conditions which might lead
you to believe a problem exists with your
radio.
The following conditions are normal and
do not indicate radio trouble:
- Fading - As your vehicle moves away
from the radio station, the signal will
weaken and sound will begin to fade.
When this occurs, we suggest that you
select another station with a stronger
signal.
- Flutter/Static - Weak FM signals or
large obstructions between the transmitter and your radio can disturb the
signal causing static or fluttering
noises to occur. Reducing the treble
level may lessen this effect until the
disturbance clears.
- Station Swapping - As an FM signal
weakens, another more powerful signal near the same frequency may
begin to play. This is because your
radio is designed to lock onto the
clearest signal. If this occurs, select
another station with a stronger signal.

--- Page 218 ---
Features of your vehicle Infotainment system
WARNING
Cell phone use
Do not use a celular phone while driving. Stop at a safe location to use a celular phone.
WARNING
- Multi-Path cancellation - Radio signals being received from several
directions can cause distortion or fluttering. This can be caused by a direct
and reflected signal from the same
station, or by signals from two stations with close frequencies. If this
occurs, select another station until the
condition has passed.
Using a cellular phone or a twoway radio
When a celular phone is used inside the
vehicle, noise may be produced from the
audio system. This does not mean that
something is wrong with the audio
equipment. In such a case, try to operate
mobile devices as far from the audio
equipment as possible.
When using a communication system
such as a celular phone or a radio set
inside the vehicle, a separate external
antenna must be fitted. When a celular
phone or a radio set is used with only the
internal antenna, it may interfere with
the vehicle's electrical system and
adversely affect the safe operation of
the vehicle.
Distracted driving
Driving while distracted can result in a
loss of vehicle control that may lead to
an accident, severe bodily injury, or
death. The driver's primary responsibility
is in the safe and legal operation of a
vehicle. Any use of handheld devices,
other equipment, or vehicle systems that
take the driver's eyes, attention, and
focus away from the safe operation of a
vehicle are not permissable by law.
These should never be used during the
operation of the vehicle.

--- Page 219 ---
Features of your vehicle
Declaration of Conformity
Declaration of Conformity
FCC
This equipment has been tested and
found to comply with the limits for a
Class B digital device, pursuant to part
15 of the FCC Rules. These limits are
designed to provide reasonable protection against harmful interference in a
residential installation.
This equipment generates, uses and can
radiate radio frequency energy and, if
not installed and used in accordance
with the instructions, may cause harmful
interference to radio communications.
However, there is no guarantee that
interference will not occur in a particular
installation. If this equipment does cause
harmful interference to radio or television reception, which can be determined
by turning the equipment off and on, the
user is encouraged to try to correct the
interference by one or more of the following measures:
- Reorient or relocate the receiving
antenna.
- Increase the separation between the
equipment and receiver.
- Connect the equipment into an outlet
on a circuit different from that to
which the receiver is connected.
- Consult the dealer or an experienced
radio/TV technician for help.
1. This device may not cause harmful
interference.
2.This device must accept any interference received, including interference
that may cause undesired operation.
This equipment complies with FCC radiation exposure limits set forth for an
uncontroled environment.
This equipment should be installed and
operated with minimum 8 in (20 cm)
between the radiator and your body.
This transmitter must not be colocated
or operating in conjunction with any
other antenna or transmitter unless
authorized to do so by the FCC.
CAUTION
Any changes or modifications to this
device that is not explicitly approved by
the manufacturer could void your
authority to operate this equipment.
This device complies with part 15 of the
FCC Rules. Operation is subject to the
following two conditions:

--- Page 220 ---
Driving your vehicle
Driving your vehicle
Be sure the exhaust system does not leak 5-4
Before driving 5-4
Key positions 5-6
- illuminated ignition switch 5-6
- Ignition switch position 5-6
- Starting the engine 5-7
ENGINE START/STOP button 5-8
- illuminated ENGINE START/STOP button 5-8
- ENGINE START/STOP button position 5-8
- Starting the engine 5-9
Automatic transmission (Shift Lever) 5-11
- Automatic transmission operation 5-11
- Paddle shifter 5-14
- Shift lock system 5-14
- Good driving practices 5-15
All Wheel Drive (AWD) system 5-17
- AWD (AWD/SNOW MODE) 5-17
- For safe Al Wheel Drive (AWD) operation 5-20
Brake system 5-25
- Power brakes 5-25
- Parking brake (foot type) 5-26
- Electronic Parking Brake (EPB) 5-28
- AUTO HOLD 5-32
- Anti-lock Brake System (ABS) 5-34
- Electronic Stability Control (ESC) system 5-35
- downhill Brake Control (DBC) 5-38
- Hill-start Assist Control (HAC) 5-40
- Vehicle Stability Management (VSM) system 5-40
- Trailer Stability Assist (TSA) system 5-41
- Brake Assistant System (BAS) 5-41
- Active air flap 5-42

--- Page 221 ---
5 Driving your vehicle
Good braking practices 5-43
Vehicle Auto Shut-off system 5-44
- Operating Conditions 5-44
- Deactivating Conditions 5-44
- System Operation 5-44
Idle Stop and Go (ISG) system 5-45
- Auto stop 5-45
- Auto start 5-45
- Operating conditions 5-46
- Deactivating the ISG 5-47
- ISG malfunction 5-47
- Smart ISG features 5-47
Drive mode integrated control system 5-50
- Drive mode 5-50
Economical operation 5-53
Special driving conditions 5-54
Winter driving 5-58
Trailer towing 5-62
- Hitches 5-63
- Safety chains 5-64
- Trailer brakes 5-64
- Driving with a trailer 5-64
- Maintenance when trailer towing 5-67
- If you do decide to pull a trailer 5-67
Vehicle load limit 5-69
- Steps For Determining Correct Load Limit- 5-70
- Certification label 5-72
Vehicle weight 5-73
- Base curb weight 5-73
- Vehicle curb weight 5-73

--- Page 222 ---
a alinev tuoy enivira

Driving your vehicle 5
• Cargo weight..
• GAW (Gross axle weight)
• GAWR (Gross axle weight rating)
• GVW (Gross vehicle weight)
• GVWR (Gross vehicle weight rating)
• Overloadin
Overloading..
5-73
5-73
5-73
5-73
..5-73
5-74
5-74

--- Page 223 ---
Driving your vehicle
Driving your vehicle
Be sure the exhaust system
does not leak.
The exhaust system should be checked
whenever the vehicle is raised to change
the oil or for any other purpose.
If you hear a change in the sound of the
exhaust or if you drive over something
that strikes the underneath side of the
vehicle, have the exhaust system
checked as soon as possible by an
authorized Kia dealer.
WARNING
Engine exhaust
Do not inhale exhaust fumes or leave
your engine running in an enclosed area
for a prolonged time. Exhaust fumes
contain carbon monoxide, a colorless
and odorless gas that can cause unconsciousness and death by asphyxiation.
WARNING
Open liftgate
Do not drive with the liftgate open. Poisonous exhaust gases can enter the passenger compartment. If you must drive
with the liftgate open proceed as follows:
1. Close all windows.
2.Open side vents.
3.Set the air intake control at "Fresh",
the air flow control at "Floor" or "Face",
and the fan at the highest speed.
Be sure the exhaust system does not leak.
Before driving
Before getting into the vehicle, you
should examine the vehicle and its surroundings. After getting into the vehicle,
you should check a number of things
before driving.
Before entering vehicle
- Be sure that all windows, outside mirror(s), and outside lights are clean.
- Check the condition of the tires.
- Check under the vehicle for any sign
of leaks.
- Be sure there are no obstacles behind
you if you intend to back up.
Necessary inspections
Fluid levels, such as engine oil, engine
coolant, brake fluid, and washer fluid
should be checked on a regular basis, at
the exact interval depending on the
fluid. Further details are provided in
"Maintenance" on page 8-4.
WARNING
Distracted driving
Focus on the road while driving. The
driver's primary responsibility is in the
safe and legal operation of the vehicle.
Use of any hand-held devices, other
equipment or vehicle systems that distract the driver should not be used
during vehicle operation.

--- Page 224 ---
Driving your vehicle Before starting
- Close and lock all doors.
- Position the seat so that all controls
are easily reached.
- Buckle your seat belt.
- Adjust the inside and outside rear
view mirrors.
- Be sure that all lights work.
- Check all gauges.
- Check the operation of warning lights
when the ENGINE START/STOP button is turned to the ON position.
- Release the parking brake and make
sure the brake warning light is not on.
For safe operation, be sure you are
familiar with your vehicle and its equipment.
WARNING
When you intend to park or stop the
vehicle with the engine on, be careful
not to depress the accelerator pedal for
a long period of time. It may overheat
the engine or exhaust system and cause
fire.
WARNING
Check surroundings
Always check the surrounding areas
near your vehicle for people, especially
children, before putting a vehicle into D
(Drive) or R (Reverse).
Before driving
WARNING
Loose objects
Securely store items in your vehicle.
When you make a sudden stop or turn
the steering wheel rapidly, loose objects
may drop on the floor and it could interfere with the operation of the foot pedals, possibly causing an accident.
WARNING
Driving under the influence
Do not drive while under the influence of
alcohol, drugs, or other impairing substances. Drinking and driving is dangerous. Even a small amount of alcohol will
affect your reflexes, perceptions and
judgment.
Driving while under the influence of
drugs or other impairing substances is
as dangerous as or more dangerous
than driving drunk.
WARNING
Proper footwear
Always wear appropriate shoes when
operating your vehicle. Unsuitable shoes
(high heels, ski boots, sandals, etc.) may
interfere with your ability to use the
brake and accelerator pedals.

--- Page 225 ---
Driving your vehicle
WARNING
California Proposition 65
Engine exhaust and a wide variety of automobile components
and parts, including components
found in the interior furnishings
in a vehicle, contain or emit
chemicals known to the State of
California to cause cancer and
birth defects and reproductive
harm. In addition, certain fluid
contained in vehicles and certain
products of component wear
contain or emit chemicals known
to the State of California to cause
cancer and birth defects or other
reproductive harm.
Key positions
Key positions (if equipped)
Your vehicle is equipped with four different ignition positions.
Illuminated ignition switch
Whenever a front door is opened, the
ignition switch will illuminate for your
convenience, provided the ignition
switch is not in the ON position.
The light will go off immediately when
the ignition switch is turned on. It will
also go off after about 30 seconds when
the door is closed.
Ignition switch position
Your vehicle is equipped with four different ignition positions.
LOCK (1)
The ignition key can be removed only in
the LOCK position.
ACC (Accessory) (2)
The electrical accessories are operative.
If difficulty is experienced turning the
ignition switch to the ACC position, turn
the key while turning the steering wheel
right and left to release the tension.

--- Page 226 ---
Driving your vehicle ON (3)
The warning lights can be checked
before the engine is started. This is the
normal running position after the engine
is started.
Do not leave the ignition switch ON if the
engine is not running to prevent battery
discharge.
START (4)
Turn the ignition switch to the START
position to start the engine. The engine
will crank until you release the key; then
it returns to the ON position. The brake
warning light can be checked in this
position.
WARNING
Ignition switch
Never turn the ignition switch to LOCK
or ACC while the vehicle is moving. This
would result in loss of directional control
and braking function, which could cause
an accident.
NOTICE
If you leave the ignition switch to the
ACC or ON position for a long time, the
battery may discharge.
WARNING
Key holder
Do not attach small purses, multiple
keys, or any other heavy accessories to
the driver's key chain used to start the
vehicle. This may cause the driver to
accidentally make the key inserted in the
vehicle to change the ignition position to
the ACC position while the vehicle is
moving thereby increasing the risk of an
Key positions
accident and causing the deactivation of
several safety features.
WARNING
Leaving the vehicle
To avoid unexpected or sudden vehicle
movement, never leave your vehicle if
the gear is not locked in the P (Park)
position and the parking brake is fuly
engaged. Before leaving the driver's
seat, always make sure the gear is
shifted to P (Park) position, set the parking brake fuly and shut the engine off.
Starting the engine
1. Make sure the parking brake is
applied.
2.Make sure the gear is shifted to P
(Park) position. Depress the brake
pedal fuly.
3.Turn the ignition switch to START and
hold it there until the engine starts (a
maximum of 10 seconds), then
release the key.
It should be started without depressing the accelerator pedal.
4.Do not wait for the engine to warm up
while the vehicle remains stationary.
Start driving at moderate engine
speeds. (Steep accelerating and
decelerating should be avoided.)
WARNING
Steering wheel
Never reach for any controls through the
steering wheel while the vehicle is in
motion. The presence of your hand or
arm in this area could cause a loss of
vehicle control.

--- Page 227 ---
Driving your vehicle
ENGINE START/STOP button
If the engine stals while you are in
motion, do not attempt to move the shift
lever to the P (Park) position. If traffic
and road conditions permit, you may put
the shift lever in the N (Neutral) position
while the vehicle is still moving and turn
the ignition switch to the START position
in an attempt to restart the engine.
ENGINE START/STOP button
(if equipped)
Illuminated ENGINE START/STOP
button
CAUTION
Starter
Do not engage the starter for more than
10 seconds. If the engine stals or fails to
start, wait 5 to 10 seconds before reengaging the starter. Improper use of the
starter may damage it.
The light will go off after about 30 seconds when the door is closed. It will also
go off immediately when the theft-alarm
system is armed.
ENGINE START/STOP button
position
Your vehicle is equipped with four different ignition positions.
OFF
To turn off the engine (START/RUN position) or vehicle power (ON position),
press the ENGINE START/STOP button
with the gear in the P (Park) position.
When you press the ENGINE START/
STOP button without the gear in the P
(Park) position, the ENGINE START/
STOP button will not change to the OFF
position but to the ACC position.
ACC (Accessory)

--- Page 228 ---
Driving your vehicle Press the ENGINE START/STOP button
while it is in the OFF position without
depressing the brake pedal.
The steering wheel unlocks and electrical accessories are operational.
If the ENGINE START/STOP button is in
the ACC position for more than 1 hour,
the button is turned off automatically to
prevent battery discharge.
ON
Press the ENGINE START/STOP button
while it is in the ACC position without
depressing the brake pedal.
The warning lights can be checked
before the engine is started. Do not
leave the ENGINE START/STOP button
in the ON position for a long time. The
battery may discharge, because the
engine is not running.
NOTICE
If you leave the ENGINE START/STOP
button in the ACC or ON position for a
long time, the battery will discharge.
START/RUN
To start the engine, depress the brake
pedal and press the ENGINE START/
STOP button with the gear in the P
(Park) or the N (Neutral) position. For
your safety, start the engine with the
gear in the P (Park) position.
NOTICE
If you press the ENGINE START/STOP
button without pressing the brake pedal,
the engine will not start and the ENGINE
START/STOP button changes as follow:
OFF → ACC → ON → OFF or ACC
ENGINE START/STOP button
WARNING
- Never press the ENGINE START/STOP
button while the vehicle is in motion.
This would result in loss of directional
control and braking function, which
could cause an accident.
- Before leaving the driver's seat,
always make sure the gear is shifted
to P (Park) position, set the parking
brake fuly and shut the engine off.
Unexpected and sudden vehicle
movement may occur if these precautions are not taken.
- Never reach controls through the
steering wheel while the vehicle is in
motion. The presence of your hand or
arm in the area could cause loss of
vehicle control, an accident and serious bodily injury or death.
- Do not place any movable objects
around the driver's seat as they may
move while driving, interfere with the
driver and lead to an accident.
Starting the engine
WARNING
- Do not start the vehicle with the accelerator pedal engaged. The vehicle can
move and lead to an accident.
- Wait until the engine rpm is normal.
The vehicle may suddenly move if the
brake pedal is released when the rpm
is high.

--- Page 229 ---
Driving your vehicle
Starting the engine with smart
key
At the time that the vehicle doors are
opened or when the ENGINE START/
STOP button is pressed the vehicle will
check for the smart key.
If the smart key is not in the vehicle, the
" " indicator and a message "Key is
not in the vehicle" will appear on the
instrument cluster and LCD window. And
if all doors are closed, the chime will
sound for 5 seconds. The indicator or
warning will turn off while the vehicle is
moving. Always have the smart key with
you.
WARNING
The engine will start, only when the
smart key is in the vehicle. Never allow
children or any person who is unfamiliar
with the vehicle touch the ENGINE
START/STOP button or related parts.
Pushing the ENGINE START/STOP button while the smart key is in the vehicle
may result in unintended engine activation and/or unintended vehicle movement.
CAUTION
If the engine stals while the vehicle is in
motion, do not attempt to move the gear
to the P (Park) position. If the traffic and
road conditions permit, you may put the
gear in the N (Neutral) position while the
vehicle is still moving and press the
ENGINE START/STOP button in an
attempt to restart the engine.
NOTICE
- If the battery is weak or the smart key
does not work correctly, you can start
the engine by pressing the ENGINE
ENGINE START/STOP button
START/STOP button with the smart
key.
When you press the ENGINE START/
STOP button directly with the smart
key, the smart key should contact the
button at a right angle.
- When the stop lamp fuse is blown,
you cannot start the engine normally.
Replace the fuse with a new one. If it
is not possible, you can start the
engine by pressing the ENGINE
START/STOP button for 10 seconds
while it is in the ACC position. The
engine can start without pressing the
brake pedal. But for your safety
always press the brake pedal before
starting the engine.
CAUTION
- Do not press the ENGINE START/
STOP button for more than 10 seconds except when the stop lamp fuse
is blown.
Starting the engine
1. Carry the smart key or leave it inside
the vehicle.
2.Make sure the parking brake is firmly
applied.
3.Make sure the gear is shifted to P
(Park) position. Depress the brake
pedal fuly.
4.Press the ENGINE START/STOP button.

--- Page 230 ---
Driving your vehicle Automatic transmission (Shift Lever)
It should be started without depressing the accelerator pedal.
5.Do not wait for the engine to warm up
while the vehicle remains stationary.
Start driving at moderate engine
speeds. (Steep accelerating and
decelerating should be avoided.)
Starting the gasoline engine
Operation
1. Make sure the parking brake is
applied.
2.Make sure the gear is in P (Park).
3.Fuly depress the brake pedal.
4.Turn the key to START position or
press the ENGINE START/STOP button.
Automatic transmission (Shift
Lever)
Depress the brake pedal and the
unlock button when shifting.
Press the unlock button when
shifting.
The shift lever can be shifted
freely.
Automatic transmission operation
The automatic transmission has 8 forward speeds and one reverse speed.
The individual speeds are selected automatically, depending on the balance
between the fuel economy and the
power.
NOTICE
The first few shifts on a new vehicle, if
the battery has been disconnected, may
be somewhat abrupt. This is a normal
condition, and the shifting sequence will
adjust after shifts are cycled a few times
by the TCM (Transmission Control Module) or PCM (Powertrain Control Module).

--- Page 231 ---
Driving your vehicle
For smooth operation, depress the brake
pedal when shifting from N (Neutral) to
a forward or reverse gear.
WARNING
Automatic transmission
- Always check the surrounding areas
near your vehicle for people, especially children, before shifting a vehicle into D (Drive) or R (Reverse).
- Before leaving the driver's seat,
always make sure the shift lever is in
the P (Park) position; then set the
parking brake fuly and shut the
engine off. Unexpected and sudden
vehicle movement can occur if these
precautions are not followed in the
order identified.
- Do not use the engine brake (shifting
from a high gear to lower gear) rapidly on slippery roads.
The vehicle may slip causing an accident.
CAUTION
- To avoid damage to your transmission, do not accelerate the engine in R
(Reverse) or any forward gear position with the brakes on.
- When stopped on an incline, do not
hold the vehicle stationary with
engine power. Use the service brake
or the parking brake.
- Do not shift from N (Neutral) or P
(Park) into D (Drive), or R (Reverse)
when the engine is above idle speed.
Transmission ranges
The indicator in the instrument cluster
displays the shift lever position when the
ignition switch or ENGINE START/STOP
button is in the ON position.
Automatic transmission (Shift Lever)
P (Park)
Always come to a complete stop before
shifting into P (Park). This position locks
the transmission and prevents the front
wheels from rotating.
WARNING
- Shifting into P (Park) while the vehicle
is in motion will cause the drive
wheels to lock which will cause you to
lose control of the vehicle.
- Do not use the P (Park) position in
place of the parking brake. Always
make sure the shift lever is latched in
the P (Park) position and set the parking brake fuly.
- Never leave a child unattended in a
vehicle.
CAUTION
The transmission may be damaged if
you shift into P (Park) while the vehicle is
in motion.
R (Reverse)
Use this position to drive the vehicle
backward.
CAUTION
Always come to a complete stop before
shifting into or out of R (Reverse); you
may damage the transmission if you
shift into R while the vehicle is in motion,
except as explained in "Rocking the
vehicle" on page 5-55.
N (Neutral)
The wheels and transmission are not
engaged. The vehicle will roll freely even

--- Page 232 ---
Driving your vehicle on the slightest incline unless the parking brake or service brakes are applied.
WARNING
Do not coast with the shift lever in N
(Neutral).
The engine brake will not work and lead
to an accident.
CAUTION
- Always park the vehicle in "P" (Park)
for safety and engage the parking
brake. If left in "N" (Neutral), the vehicle may move and cause serious damage and injury.
- After the ignition switch or ENGINE
START/STOP button has been turned
off, the electronic parking brake cannot be disengaged.
- When the engine has been turned
"OFF" in a vehicle equipped with EPB
(Electronic Parking Brake) and the
AUTO HOLD function turned on, the
electronic parking brake will be
engaged automatically.
D (Drive)
This is the normal forward driving position. The transmission will automatically
shift through 8 gear sequence, providing
the best fuel economy and power.
For extra power when passing another
vehicle or climbing grades, depress the
accelerator fuly, at which time the transmission will automatically downshift to
the next lower gear.
NOTICE
Always come to a complete stop before
shifting into D (Drive).
Automatic transmission (Shift Lever)
Manual mode
Whether the vehicle is stationary or in
motion, manual mode is selected by
pushing the shift lever from the D (Drive)
position into the manual gate. To return
to D (Drive) range operation, push the
shift lever back into the main gate.
In manual mode, moving the shift lever
backwards and forwards will allow you
to make gearshifts rapidly. In contrast to
a manual transmission, manual mode
allows gearshifts with the accelerator
pedal depressed.
- Up (+): Push the lever forward once to
shift up one gear.
- Down (-): Pull the lever backwards
once to shift down one gear.
NOTICE
- The driver must execute upshifts in
accordance with road conditions, taking care to keep the engine speed
below the red zone.
- Only the 8 forward gears can be
selected. To reverse or park the vehicle, move the shift lever to the R
(Reverse) or P (Park) position as
required.
- Downshifts are made automatically
when the vehicle slows down. When
the vehicle stops, 1st gear is automatically selected.
- When the engine rpm approaches the
red zone shift points are varied to
upshift automatically.

--- Page 233 ---
Driving your vehicle
- To maintain the required levels of
vehicle performance and safety, the
system may not execute certain gearshifts when the shift lever is operated.
- When driving on a slippery road, push
the shift lever forward into the +(up)
position. This causes the transmission
to shift into the 2nd gear which is better for smooth driving on a slippery
road. Push the shift lever to the -
(down) side to shift back to the 1st
gear.
Paddle shifter (if equipped)
The paddle shift function is available
when the shift lever is in the D (Drive)
position or the manual mode.
With the shift lever in the D position
Pull the [+] or [-] paddle shifter once to
shift up or down one gear and the system changes from automatic mode to
manual mode.
Paddle shifter doesn't work at low vehicle speed.
To change back to automatic shift mode
from manual shift mode, do one of the
followings:
Automatic transmission (Shift Lever)
- Pull the [+] paddle shifter for more
than one second
- Move the shift lever from D (Drive) to
manual gate and return it to D position again
The manual shift mode also changes
back to automatic shift mode in one of
following situations
- When the accelerator pedal is gently
depressed for more than 6 seconds
while driving
- When the vehicle stops
With the shift lever in the manual
mode
Pull the [+] or [-] paddle shifter once to
shift up or down one gear.
NOTICE
If you pull the [+] and [-] paddle shifters
at the same time, you cannot shift the
gear.
Shift lock system
For your safety, the automatic transmission has a shift lock system which prevents shifting the transmission from P
(Park) into R (Reverse) unless the brake
pedal is depressed.
To shift the transmission from P (Park)
into R (Reverse):
1. Depress and hold the brake pedal.
2.Start the engine or turn the ignition
switch or ENGINE START/STOP button to the ON position.
3.Move the shift lever.
If the brake pedal is repeatedly
depressed and released with the shift
lever in the P (Park) position, a chattering noise near the shift lever may be
heard. This is a normal condition.

--- Page 234 ---
Driving your vehicle Automatic transmission (Shift Lever)
WARNING
Always fuly depress the brake pedal
before and while shifting out of the P
(Park) position into another position to
avoid inadvertent motion of the vehicle
which could injure persons in or around
the vehicle.
Shift-lock override
If the shift lever cannot be moved from
the P (Park) position into R (Reverse)
position with the brake pedal depressed,
continue depressing the brake, then do
the following:
1. Place the ignition switch or ENGINE
START/STOP button in the LOCK/OFF
position.
2.Apply the parking brake.
3.Carefuly remove the knob boots covering the shift-lock release access
hole.
4.Insert a tool (e.g., flathead screwdriver) into the access hole and press
down on the tool.
5.Move the shift lever.
6.Remove the tool from the shift - lock
override access hole then install the
knob boots.
7.If the shift lever does not move even
after performing this procedure, have
the system inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.
Good driving practices
- Never move the shift lever from P
(Park) or N (Neutral) to any other
position with the accelerator pedal
depressed.
- Never move the shift lever into P
(Park) when the vehicle is in motion.
- Be sure the vehicle is completely
stopped before you attempt to shift
into R (Reverse) or D (Drive).
- Never take the vehicle out of gear and
coast down a hill. This may be
extremely hazardous. Always leave
the vehicle in gear when moving.
- Do not "ride" the brakes. This can
cause them to overheat and malfunction. Instead, when you are driving
down a long hill, slow down and shift
to a lower gear. When you do this,
engine braking will help slow down
the vehicle.
- Slow down before shifting to a lower
gear. Otherwise, the lower gear may
not be engaged.
- Always use the parking brake. Do not
depend on placing the transmission in
P (Park) to keep the vehicle from
moving.
- Exercise extreme caution when driving on a slippery surface. Be especially careful when braking,
accelerating or shifting gears. On a
slippery surface, an abrupt change in
vehicle speed can cause the drive
wheels to lose traction and the vehicle
to go out of control.
- Optimum vehicle performance and
economy is obtained by smoothly
depressing and releasing the accelerator pedal.

--- Page 235 ---
Driving your vehicle
Automatic transmission (Shift Lever)
WARNING
becomes unstuck, causing injury or
damage to nearby people or objects.
- When driving uphill or downhill,
ensure that the gear position is set for
the direction of travel: D (Drive) for
forward and R (Reverse) for rearward.
Driving in the opposite direction of the
selected gear can cause the engine to
shut off and can affect braking performance, increasing the risk of a
crash.
- Always buckle-up! In a collision, an
unbelted occupant is significantly
more likely to be seriously injured or
kiled than a properly belted occupant.
- Avoid high speeds when cornering or
turning.
- Do not make quick steering wheel
movements, such as sharp lane
changes or fast, sharp turns.
- The risk of a rollover is greatly
increased if you lose control of your
vehicle at highway speeds.
- Losing control often occurs if two or
more wheels drop off the roadway
and the driver oversteers to reenter
the roadway.
- In the event your vehicle leaves the
roadway, do not steer sharply.
Instead, slow down before pulling
back into the travel lanes.
- Never exceed posted speed limits.
Moving up a steep grade from a
standing start
To move up a steep grade from a standing start:
- Depress the brake pedal, shift the
shift lever to D (Drive).
Select the appropriate gear depending on load weight and steepness of
the grade, and release the parking
brake. Depress the accelerator gradually after releasing the service brakes.
WARNING
If your vehicle becomes stuck in snow,
mud, sand, etc., then you may attempt
to rock the vehicle free by moving it forward and backward. Do not attempt this
procedure if people or objects are anywhere near the vehicle. During the rocking operation the vehicle may suddenly
move forward or backward as it

--- Page 236 ---
Driving your vehicle All Wheel Drive (AWD) system
(if equipped)
The Al Wheel Drive (AWD) system delivers engine power to front and rear
wheels for maximum traction.
AWD is useful when extra traction is
required, such as when driving slippery,
muddy, wet, or snow-covered roads.
If the system determines there is a need
for four wheel drive, the engine's driving
power will be distributed to all four
wheels automatically.
WARNING
Off road driving
This vehicle is designed primarily for on
road use although it can operate effectively off road. However, it was not
designed to drive in challenging off-road
conditions. Driving in conditions that
exceed the vehicle's intended design or
the driver's experience level may result
in severe injury or death.
NOTICE
If the AWD warning light ( ) stays on
the instrument cluster, your vehicle may
have a malfunction with the AWD system. When the AWD warning light ( )
appears, have your vehicle checked by
an authorized Kia dealer.
WARNING
To reduce the risk of SERIOUS INJURY
or DEATH:
- Do not drive in conditions that exceed
the vehicle's intended design such as
challenging off-road conditions.
- Avoid high speeds when cornering or
turning.
All Wheel Drive (AWD) system
- Do not make quick steering wheel
movements, such as sharp lane
changes or fast, sharp turns.
- The risk of a rollover is greatly
increased if you lose control of your
vehicle at highway speeds.
- Loss of control often occurs if two or
more wheels drop off the roadway
and the driver over steers to reenter
the roadway.
- In the event your vehicle leaves the
roadway, do not steer sharply.
Instead, slow down before pulling
back into the travel lanes.
AWD (AWD/SNOW MODE)
AWD helps the vehicle to maintain its
best driving performance by controlling
4 wheels, engine, transmission and braking according to road conditions such as
snow, mud, sand, etc.
Advantages of AWD
- Enhance safety when driving straight.
- Improve performance when cornering.
- Ensure operability in tough driving
conditions such as snow, rain, sand,
etc.

--- Page 237 ---
зaoм wou2 ot\mort pnidbtiw?

Driving your vehicle
(if equipped)
MODE.
* NOTICE
tailure.
Switching from/to SNOW MODE
You can switch from DRIVE MODE to
SNOW mode by turning the knob. If you
turn the DRIVE/SNOW mode button
again, the vehicle will go back to DRIVE
• Even though you turned off the vehicle in SNOW mode, DRIVE mode will
be set when you restart the vehicle.
• When the AWD LOCK mode is deactivated, a shock may be felt as the drive
power is delivered entirely to the front
wheels. Ihis shock is not a mechanical
All Wheel Drive (AWD) system

--- Page 238 ---
Driving your vehicle All Wheel Drive (AWD) system
AWD transfer mode selection
Transfer
mode Selection mode Description
DRIVE MODE -
- DRIVE MODE is used when driving on roads in normal
conditions, roads in urban areas, and on highways.
- Al wheels are in operation when a vehicle travels at a constant speed. Required tractions applying on front and rear
wheels vary depending on road driving conditions and
driving conditions, which will be automatically controlled
by the computing system.
- When the cluster's DRIVE MODE display mode is selected,
the cluster displays the status of how four wheels' traction
forces are distributed.
SNOW
SNOW mode is used to appropriately distribute the vehicle's
traction forces and prevent wheel slippage when driving on
snowy or slippery road.
AWD LOCK
The main goal of AWD Lock mode is to allow a driver to maximize the vehicle's traction under extreme driving conditions
such as unpaved off-road, sandy roads, and muddy roads.
(Indicator lightis appear)
CAUTION
Normal road conditions
- Maintain DRIVE mode when driving on roads in normal conditions.
- Driving in TERRAIN mode on normal roads may damage the AWD system and
cause mechanical vibration or noise.
- When driving under normal road conditions (especially when cornering) in AWD
Lock mode, a driver may find minor mechanical vibration or noise, which is
extremely normal phenomenon, not a malfunction. When AWD Lock mode is
released, such noise or vibration will be immediately gone.
- When you turn off AWD Lock mode, it can lead to little shocks but this is a normal
phenomenon that lasts until the traction forces on the front and rear wheels of the
vehicle are released.
WARNING
Brake lock on tight corners
This is a unique characteristic of a AWD vehicle when making a slow rotation in AWD
Lock Mode. The driver will feel like the brake is applied due to the difference in tire
rotation. Steering may be more difficult in a sharp turn on the paved road in AWD
Lock Mode.

--- Page 239 ---
Driving your vehicle
All Wheel Drive (AWD) system
Do not make a fast, sharp turns when AWD Lock Mode is ON. The steering may be
difficult and the accident may happen.
For safe All Wheel Drive (AWD)
operation
NOTICE
All Wheel Drive
The conditions of on-road or off-road
that demand Al Wheel Drive mean al
functions of your vehicle are exposed to
extreme stress than under normal road
conditions. Slow down and be ready for
changes in the composition and traction
of the surface under your tires. If you
have any doubt about the safety of the
conditions you are facing, stop and consider the best way to proceed.
WARNING
- Do not try to drive in deep standing
water or mud since such conditions
can stal your engine and clog your
exhaust pipes. Do not drive down
steep hils since it requires extreme
skill to maintain control of the vehicle.
Hills
Driving across the contour of steep hils
can be extremely dangerous. This danger can come from slight changes in the
wheel angle which can destabilize the
vehicle or, even if the vehicle is maintaining stability under power, it can lose
that stability if the vehicle stops its forward motion. Your vehicle may roll over
without warning and without time for
you to correct a mistake that could
cause serious injury or death.
- You must learn how to corner in a
AWD vehicle. Do not rely on your
experience in conventional FWD vehicles when cornering the vehicle in
AWD mode. For starters, you must
drive slower in AWD.
WARNING
- When you are driving up or down hils
drive as straight as possible. Use
extreme caution in going up or down
steep hils, since you may flip your
vehicle over depending on the grade,
terrain and water/mud conditions.
All Wheel Drive (AWD)
Reduce speed when you turn corners.
The center of gravity of AWD vehicles is
higher than that of conventional FWD
vehicles, making them more likely to roll
over when you turn corners too fast.

--- Page 240 ---
Driving your vehicle ONQ5041420N
WARNING
Steering wheel
Do not grab the inside of the steering
wheel when you are driving on unpaved
roads. You may hurt your arm by a sudden steering maneuver or from steering
wheel rebound due to impact with
objects on the ground. You could lose
control of the steering wheel.
- Always hold the steering wheel firmly
when you are driving on unpaved
roads.
- Make sure all passengers are wearing
seat belts.
WARNING
Wind danger
If you are driving in heavy wind, the
vehicle's higher center of gravity
decreases your steering control capacity
and requires you to drive more slowly.
WARNING
Driving through water
Drive slowly. If you are driving too fast in
water, the water can get into the engine
compartment and wet the ignition system, causing your vehicle to suddenly
All Wheel Drive (AWD) system
stop. If this happens and your vehicle is
in a tilted position, your vehicle may roll
over.
NOTICE
- Do not drive in water if the level is
higher than the bottom of the vehicle.
- Check your brake condition once you
are out of mud or water. Press the
brake pedal several times as you
move slowly until you feel normal
braking forces return.
- Shorten your scheduled maintenance
interval if you drive in offroad conditions such as sand, mud or water
(refer to "Scheduled maintenance service" on page 8-8). Always wash your
vehicle thoroughly after off-road use,
especially cleaning the bottom of the
vehicle.
- Since the driving torque is always
applied to the 4 wheels the performance of the AWD vehicle is greatly
affected by the condition of the tires.
Be sure to equip the vehicle with four
tires of the same size and type.
- A full time Al Wheel Drive vehicle cannot be towed by an ordinary tow
truck. Make sure that the vehicle is
placed on a flat bed truck for moving.
WARNING
All Wheel Drive (AWD) driving
- Avoid high cornering speed.
- Do not make quick steering wheel
movements, such as sharp lane
changes or fast, sharp turns.
- The risk of rollover is greatly
increased if you lose control of your
vehicle at high speed.

--- Page 241 ---
Driving your vehicle
- In a collision, an unbelted person is
significantly more likely to die compared to a person wearing a seat belt.
- Loss of control often occurs if two or
more wheels drop off the roadway
and the driver over-steers to re-enter
the roadway. In the event your vehicle
leaves the roadway, do not steer
sharply. Instead, slow down before
pulling back into the travel lanes.
CAUTION
Mud or snow
If one of the front or rear wheels begins
to spin in mud, snow, etc. the vehicle can
sometimes be driven out by engaging
the accelerator pedal further; however
avoid running the engine continuously
at high rpm because doing so could
damage the AWD system.
Driving in sand or mud
- Maintain slow and constant speed.
Operate the accelerator pedal slowly
to ensure safe driving (wheel-slip prevention).
- Keep sufficient distance between your
vehicle and the vehicle in front of you.
- Reduce vehicle speed and always
check the road condition.
- Avoid speeding, rapid acceleration,
sudden brake applications, and sharp
turns to prevent getting stuck.
- When the vehicle is stuck in snow,
sand or mud, the tires may not operate.
- This is to protect the transmission and
not a malfunction.
NOTICE
Moving the vehicle forcibly to get out of
mud or sand can cause damage/over-
All Wheel Drive (AWD) system
heat of the engine or damage/breakdown of the transmission, differential or
AWD system as well as damage to tires.
If excessive wheel slip occurs after
entering a sandy/muddy road, the vehicle may fal into the sand/mud. When it
happens, put a stone or a tree branch
under the tire, and then try to pull out
the vehicle, or try to get it unstuck by
repeatedly moving forwards and backwards.
Transmission overheated
A: Transmission Hot! Park with engine
on
B: Trans cooled. Resume driving
- When driving on muddy and sandy
roads under the severe condition, the
transmission could be overheated.
- When the transmission is overheated,
the safe protection mode engages
and the "Transmission Hot! Park with
engine on" warning message will
appear on the LCD display with a
chime.
- If this occurs, pull over to a safe location, stop the vehicle with the engine
running, apply the brakes and shift

--- Page 242 ---
Driving your vehicle All Wheel Drive (AWD) system
the vehicle to P (Park), and allow the
transmission to cool.
- If you ignore this warning, the driving
condition may become worse. You
may experience abrupt shifts, frequent shifts, or jerkiness. To return to
the normal driving condition, stop the
vehicle and apply the foot brake or
shift into P (Park). Then allow the
transmission to cool for a few minutes
with engine on, before driving off.
- When the message "Trans cooled.
Resume driving" appears you can
continue to drive your vehicle.
If the warning messages in the LCD display continue to blink, for your safety,
have the system checked by an authorized Kia dealer.
lead to steering failure or rollover
causing serious injury.
* Refer to "Tire chains" on page 5-59.
Towing precautions
Tire precautions
Always pay attention to tires for AWD
(al-wheel drive) vehicles.
When driving in al-wheel drive, driving
force is applied to all tires, and the driving performance of the vehicle is greatly
affected by the degree of tire wear:
AWD vehicle
WARNING
- Each tire should be checked monthly
when cold and inflated to inflation
pressure recommended by the vehicle manufacturer on the vehicle placard or tire inflation pressure label.
- Rotate the tires every 6,000 miles
(10,000 km).
- When replacing tires, be sure to equip
all four tires with the same size, type,
tread, brand and load-carrying capacity. Do not use tire and wheel with different size and type from the one
originally installed on your vehicle. It
can affect the safety and performance of your vehicle, which could
FWD vehicle
The AWD vehicle should never be towed
with the wheels on the ground. Your
vehicle must be towed with a wheel lift
and dolies or flatbed equipment with al
the wheels off the ground.

--- Page 243 ---
Driving your vehicle
* Refer to "Trailer towing (if equipped)"
on page 5-62.
CAUTION
The AWD vehicle cannot be towed with
sling-type equipment. Use wheel lift or
flatbed equipment.
WARNING
Your vehicle is equipped with tires
designed to provide safe ride and handling capability. Do not use tires and
wheels that are different in size and type
from the originally installed ones. It can
affect the safety and performance of
your vehicle, which could lead to steering failure or rollover and serious injury.
When replacing the tires, be sure to
equip all four tires with the tire and
wheel of the same size, type, tread,
brand and load-carrying capacity.
WARNING
Jacked vehicle
While the full-time AWD vehicle is being
raised on a jack, never start the engine
or cause the tires to rotate.
There is the danger that rotating tires
touching the ground could cause the
vehicle to go off the jack and to jump
forward.
- Full-time AWD vehicles must be
tested on a special four wheel chassis
dynamometer.
NOTICE
Never engage the parking brake while
performing these tests.
- A full-time AWD vehicle should not be
tested on a FWD roll tester. If a FWD
All Wheel Drive (AWD) system
roll tester must be used, perform the
following:
[A]: Roll tester
[B]: Temporary free roler
1. Check the tire pressures recommended for your vehicle.
2.Place the front wheels on the roll tester (A) for a speedometer test.
3.Release the parking brake.
4.Place the rear wheels on the temporary free roler (B).
WARNING
Dynamometer testing
Keep away from the front of the vehicle
while the vehicle is in gear on the dynamometer. This is very dangerous as the
vehicle can jump forward and cause
serious injury or death.
CAUTION
- When lifting up the vehicle, do not
operate front and rear wheel separately. Al four wheels should be operated.
- If you need to operate the front wheel
and rear wheel when lifting up the
vehicle, you should release the parking brake.

--- Page 244 ---
Driving your vehicle Brake system
Your vehicle has power-assisted brakes,
parking brake, and various braking systems for safe driving.
Power brakes
Your vehicle has power-assisted brakes
that adjust automatically through normal usage.
In the event that the power-assisted
brakes lose power because of a staled
engine or some other reason, you can
still stop your vehicle by applying
greater force to the brake pedal than
you normally would. The stopping distance, however, will be longer.
When the engine is not running, the
reserve brake power is partially depleted
each time the brake pedal is applied. Do
not pump the brake pedal when the
power assist has been interrupted.
Pump the brake pedal only when necessary to maintain steering control on slippery surfaces.
NOTICE
- When stepping on the brake pedal
under a certain driving or weather
condition. you may witness your car
make a sound of squealing or some
other noises. This is not a brake malfunction but a normal phenomenon.
- When driving on the road to which
deicing chemicals are applied, the
vehicle may witness noises from the
brake or abnormal abrasion of tires
because of such deicing chemicals.
You should operate brake additionally
so that you would be able to remove
the deicing chemicals on the brake
disk and pad under a safe traffic condition.
Brake system
CAUTION
Brake pedal
Do not drive with your foot resting on
the brake pedal. This will create abnormally high brake temperatures which
can cause excessive brake lining and
pad wear.
WARNING
Steep hill braking
Avoid continuous application of the
brakes when descending a long or steep
hill by shifting to a lower gear. Continuous brake application will cause the
brakes to overheat and could result in a
temporary loss of braking performance.
Wet brakes may impair the vehicle's ability to safely slow down; the vehicle may
also pull to one side when the brakes are
applied. Applying the brakes lightly will
indicate whether they have been
affected in this way. Always test your
brakes in this fashion after driving
through deep water. To dry the brakes,
apply them lightly while maintaining a
safe forward speed until brake performance returns to normal.
In the event of brake failure
If service brakes fail to operate while the
vehicle is in motion, you can make an
emergency stop with the parking brake.
The stopping distance, however, will be
much greater than normal.
WARNING
Parking brake
Avoid applying the parking brake to stop
the vehicle while it is moving except in
an emergency situation. Applying the
parking brake while the vehicle is moving at normal speeds can cause a sud-

--- Page 245 ---
Driving your vehicle
den loss of control of the vehicle. If you
must use the parking brake to stop the
vehicle, use great caution in applying the
brake.
Brake Over Accelerator
In the event the accelerator pedal
becomes stuck or entrapped, apply
steady and firm pressure to the brake
pedal to slow the vehicle and reduce
engine power.
If you experience this condition, take the
following steps:
1. Apply the brakes and bring your vehicle to a safe stop.
2.Move the transmission to P (Park),
switch the engine off and apply the
parking brake.
3.Inspect the accelerator pedal for any
interference.
If none are found and the condition persists, have your vehicle towed to an
authorized Kia dealer.
Disc brakes wear indicator
When your brake pads are worn and
new pads are required, you will hear a
high-pitched warning sound from your
front brakes or rear brakes. You may
hear this sound come and go or it may
occur whenever you press the brake
pedal.
Always replace the front or rear brake
pads as pairs.
CAUTION
Replace brake pads
Do not continue to drive with worn brake
pads. Continuing to drive with worn
brake pads can damage the braking system and result in costly brake repairs.
Brake system
WARNING
Brake wear
Do not ignore high pitched wear sounds
from your brakes. If you ignore this audible warning, you will eventually lose
braking performance, which could lead
to a serious accident.
NOTICE
Brake dust may accumulate on the
wheels, even under normal driving conditions. Some dust is inevitable as the
brakes wear and contribute to brake
noise.
Parking brake (foot type) (if
equipped)
Applying the parking brake
Always set the parking brake before
leaving the vehicle.
To apply the parking brake:
1. Firmly depress the brake pedal.
2.Depress the parking brake pedal
down as far as possible.
WARNING
To reduce the risk of SERIOUS INJURY
or DEATH, do not operate the parking
brake while the vehicle is moving except
in an emergency situation. It could damage the brake system and lead to an
accident.

--- Page 246 ---
Driving your vehicle Releasing the parking brake
To release the parking brake:
1. Firmly depress the brake pedal.
2.Depress the parking brake pedal
down and it will release automatically.
If the parking brake does not release or
does not release all the way, have your
vehicle checked by an authorized Kia
dealer.
WARNING
- Whenever leaving the vehicle or parking, always come to a complete stop
and continue to depress the brake
pedal. Make sure the gear is shifted to
P (Park) position, then apply the parking brake, and place the ignition
switch or ENGINE START/STOP button in the LOCK/OFF position.
Vehicles with the parking brake not
fuly engaged are at risk for moving
inadvertently and causing injury to
yourself or others.
- NEVER allow anyone who is unfamiliar with the vehicle to touch the parking brake. If the parking brake is
released unintentionally, serious
injury may occur.
- Only release the parking brake when
you are seated inside the vehicle with
your foot firmly on the brake pedal.
NOTICE
- Do not apply the accelerator pedal
while the parking brake is engaged. If
Brake system
you depress the accelerator pedal
with the parking brake engaged,
warning will sound. Damage to the
parking brake may occur.
- Driving with the parking brake on can
overheat the braking system and
cause premature wear or damage to
brake parts. Make sure the parking
brake is released and the Brake Warning Light is off before driving.
WARNING
- Never allow a passenger to touch the
parking brake. If the parking brake is
released unintentionally, serious
injury may occur.
Check the brake warning light by turning the ignition switch or ENGINE
START/STOP button to ON (do not start
the engine). This light will appear when
the parking brake is applied with the
ignition switch or ENGINE START/STOP
button in the START or ON position.
Before driving, be sure the parking
brake is fuly released and the brake
warning light is off.
If the brake warning light remains on
after the parking brake is released while
engine is running, there may be a malfunction in the brake system. Immediate
attention is necessary.
If at all possible, cease driving the vehicle immediately. If that is not possible,
use extreme caution while operating the
vehicle and only continue to drive the
vehicle until you can reach a safe location or repair shop.

--- Page 247 ---
Driving your vehicle
Electronic Parking Brake (EPB) (if
equipped)
After parking the vehicle, apply the Electronic Parking Brake (EPB) to prevent
the vehicle from being moved by the
external force.
Applying the parking brake
Applying the parking brake with
EPB switch
1. Depress the brake pedal.
2.Pull up the EPB switch.
Make sure the warning light comes on.
Also, the EPB is applied automatically if
the Auto Hold button is on when the
vehicle is turned off. In addition, if you
pull up the EPB switch after the vehicle
is turned off, the EPB will be applied.
WARNING
Never leave children and animals unattended in the vehicle. If you leave children unaccompanied in the vehicle, they
may be able to set the vehicle in motion,
for example by:
- Releasing the parking brake.
- Shifting the transmission out of P
(Park) position.
- Starting the engine.
In addition, they may operate vehicle
equipment.
Brake system
NOTICE
On a steep incline or when pulling a
trailer, if the vehicle does not remain at a
standstil, do as follows:
1. Apply the EPB.
2.Pull up the EPB switch for more than 3
seconds.
Do not operate the EPB while the vehicle
is moving except in an emergency situation.
NOTICE
A click or electric brake motor whine
sound may be heard while operating or
releasing the EPB.
These conditions are normal and indicate that the EPB is functioning properly.
Automatic application of EPB
The EPB is applied automatically under
following conditions.
- Engine OFF while AUTO HOLD is
enabled
- Conditions below while AUTO HOLD
is activated
- Driver's door is opened
- Hood is opened
- Liftgate is opened
- Vehicle stops for more than
approximately 10 minutes
- Vehicle stops on a steep slope
- Requested by other systems
NOTICE
For Electronic Parking Brake (EPB)
equipped vehicles with AUTO HOLD
function used while driving, if the
ENGINE START/STOP button has been
turned OFF, the EPB will be engaged
automatically. Therefore,

--- Page 248 ---
Driving your vehicle AUTO HOLD function should be turned
off before the ENGINE START/STOP
button is turned off.
Emergency braking with the EPB
switch
If there is a problem with the brake
pedal while driving, emergency braking
is possible by pulling up and holding the
EPB switch.
Braking is possible only while you are
holding the EPB switch.
WARNING
Do not operate the Electronic Parking
Brake (EPB) while the vehicle is moving
except in an emergency situation. Applying the EPB while the vehicle is moving
at normal speeds can cause a sudden
loss of control of the vehicle. If you must
use the EPB to stop the vehicle, use
great caution in applying the brake.
NOTICE
During emergency braking by the EPB,
the parking brake warning light will
appear to indicate that the system is
operating.
If you notice a continuous noise or burning smell when the EPB is used for emergency braking, have your vehicle
checked by an authorized Kia dealer.
Brake system
Releasing the parking brake with
EPB switch
Releasing the parking brake with EPB
switch,
1. Have the ENGINE START/STOP button in the ON position.
2.Press the brake pedal.
3.Press the EPB switch.
4.Make sure the brake warning light
goes off.
Automatic release of EPB
The EPB is released automatically under
following conditions.
- Gear in P (Park)
- With the engine running, engage
the brake pedal and shift out of P
(Park) to R (Reverse) or D (Drive).
- Gear in N (Neutral)
- Withe the engine running, engage
the brake pedal and shift out of N
(Neutral) to R (Reverse) or D
(Drive).
- Automatic transmission
1. Start the engine.
2.Fasten the driver's seat belt.
3.Close the driver's door, hood and
liftgate.

--- Page 249 ---
Driving your vehicle
4.Press the accelerator pedal while
the gear is in R (Rear), D (Drive) or
Sports mode.
Make sure the brake warning light goes
off.
NOTICE
- For your safety, you can engage the
EPB even though the ENGINE START/
STOP button is in the OFF position,
but you cannot release it.
- For your safety, press the brake pedal
and release the parking brake manually with the EPB switch when you
drive downhill or when backing up the
vehicle.
Do not follow the above procedure when
driving on a flat level ground. The vehicle may suddenly move forward.
NOTICE
If the parking brake warning light is still
on even though the EPB has been
released, have the system checked by
an authorized Kia dealer.
CAUTION
Do not drive your vehicle with the EPB
applied. It may cause excessive brake
pad and brake rotor wear.
EPB warning
The EPB will display a warning message
with sound under certain conditions.
- If you try to drive off while engaging
the accelerator pedal with the EPB
applied, but the EPB doesn't release
automatically, a warning will sound
and a message will appear.
- If the driver's seat belt is not fastened
and the vehicle hood, driver's door or
Brake system
liftgate is opened, a warning will
sound and a message will appear.
A: To release EPB, fasten seatbelt
and close door, hood and liftgate
- If there is a problem with the vehicle, a
warning may sound and a message
may appear.
If the above situation occurs, press the
brake pedal and release EPB by pressing
the EPB switch.
WARNING
Parking Brake Use
- Never allow a passenger to touch the
parking brake. If the parking brake is
released unintentionally, serious
injury may occur.
- Al vehicles should always have the
parking brake fuly engaged when
parked to avoid inadvertent movement of the vehicles which can injure
occupants or pedestrians.
- A click or electric brake motor whine
sound may be heard while operating
or releasing the EPB. These conditions
are normal and indicate that the EPB
is functioning properly.
- When leaving your keys with a parking lot attendant or valet, make sure
to inform him/her how to operate the
EPB.
- The EPB may malfunction if you drive
with the EPB applied.

--- Page 250 ---
Driving your vehicle - When you automatically release EPB
by pressing the accelerator pedal,
press it slowly.
When the conversion from Auto Hold to
EPB is not working properly a warning
will sound and a message will appear.
A: Press brake pedal to deactivate
AUTO HOLD
NOTICE
Engage the brake pedal when the above
message appears for the Auto Hold and
EPB may not activate.
If the EPB is applied while Auto Hold is
activated because of an Electronic Stability Control (ESC) signal, a warning will
sound and a message will appear.
A: Parking brake automatically
engaged
EPB malfunction indicator
This warning light appears if the ENGINE
START/STOP button is changed to the
ON position and goes off in approximately 3 seconds if the system is operating normally.
Brake system
If the EPB malfunction indicator remains
on, comes on while driving, or does not
come on when the ENGINE START/
STOP button is changed to the ON position, this indicates that the EPB may
have malfunctioned.
If this occurs, have your vehicle checked
by an authorized Kia dealer.
The EPB malfunction indicator may
appear when the ESC indicator comes
on to indicate that the ESC is not working properly, but it does not indicate a
malfunction of the EPB.
NOTICE
The EPB warning light may appear if the
EPB switch operates abnormally. Shut
the engine off and turn it on again after
a few minutes. The warning light will go
off and the EPB switch will operate normally. However, if the EPB warning light
is still on, have the system checked by
an authorized Kia dealer.
If the parking brake warning light does
not appear or blinks even though the
EPB switch was puled up, the EPB is not
applied.
If the parking brake warning light blinks
when the EPB warning light is on, press
the EPB switch, then pull it up. Once
more press it back to its original position
and pull it back up. If the EPB warning
does not go off, have the system
checked by an authorized Kia dealer.

--- Page 251 ---
Driving your vehicle
When the EPB is not released
If the EPB does not release normally,
take your vehicle to an authorized Kia
dealer by loading the vehicle on a flatbed tow truck and have the system
checked.
AUTO HOLD (if equipped)
The Auto Hold is designed to maintain
the vehicle in a standstil even though
the brake pedal is not pressed after the
driver brings the vehicle to a complete
stop by pressing the brake pedal.
Applying Auto Hold function
1. Press the brake pedal and start the
vehicle.
2.Press the Auto Hold button. The white
AUTO HOLD indicator will come on
indicating the system is in standby.
Before the Auto Hold will engage, the
driver's door and engine hood must
be closed.
Brake system
When coming to a complete stop by
pressing the brake pedal, the AUTO
HOLD indicator changes from white to
green indicating the AUTO HOLD is
engaged. The vehicle will remain at a
standstil even if you release the brake
pedal.
If EPB is applied, Auto Hold will be
released.
If you press the accelerator pedal with
the gear in D (Drive) or Manual mode,
the Auto Hold will be released automatically and the vehicle will start to move.
The indicator changes from green to
white indicating the Auto Hold is in
standby and the EPB is released.
When driving off from Auto Hold by
pressing the accelerator pedal, always
check the surrounding area near your
vehicle.
Slowly press the accelerator pedal for a
smooth launch.

--- Page 252 ---
Driving your vehicle Canceling Auto Hold function
- To cancel the Auto Hold operation,
press the Auto Hold switch. The AUTO
HOLD indicator will go out.
- To cancel the Auto Hold operation
when the vehicle is at a standstil,
press the Auto Hold switch while
pressing the brake pedal.
NOTICE
- The following are conditions when the
Auto Hold will not engage (Auto Hold
light will not turn green and the Auto
Hold system remains in stand by):
- The driver's door is opened
- The engine hood is opened
- The gear is in P (Park)
- The gear is in R (Reverse)
- The EPB is applied
- For your safety, the Auto Hold automatically switches to EPB under any
of the following conditions (Auto Hold
light remains white and the EPB automatically applies):
- The driver's door is opened.
- The engine hood is opened.
- The vehicle is in a standstil for
more than 10 minutes.
- The vehicle is standing on a steep
slope.
- The vehicle moved for a few seconds.
In these cases, the brake warning
light comes on, the AUTO HOLD
indicator changes from green to
Brake system
white, and a warning sounds and a
message will appear to inform you
that EPB has been automatically
engaged. Before driving off again,
press foot brake pedal, check the
surrounding area near your vehicle
and release parking brake manually with the EPB switch.
- If the AUTO HOLD indicator lights up
yellow, the Auto Hold is not working
properly. Take your vehicle and have
the system checked by an authorized
Kia dealer.
WARNING
To reduce the risk of an accident, do not
activate Auto Hold while driving downhill, backing up or parking your vehicle.
If there is a malfunction with the driver's
door, liftgate or engine hood open
detection system, the Auto Hold may not
work properly.
Take your vehicle and have the system
checked by an authorized Kia dealer.
NOTICE
A click or electric brake motor whine
sound may be heard while operating or
releasing the EPB, but these conditions
are normal and indicate that the EPB is
functioning properly.
Warning messages
The Auto Hold function will display a
warning message with sound under certain conditions.
When the EPB is applied from Auto Hold,
a warning will sound and a message will
appear.

--- Page 253 ---
Driving your vehicle
A: Parking brake automatically
engaged
When the conversion from Auto Hold to
EPB is not working properly a warning
will sound and a message will appear.
A: AUTO HOLD turning Off! Press
brake pedal
NOTICE
When this message is displayed, the
Auto Hold and EPB may not operate. For
your safety, press the brake pedal.
If you do not apply the brake pedal
when you release the Auto Hold by
pressing the [AUTO HOLD] switch, a
warning will sound and a message will
appear.
A: Press brake pedal to deactivate
AUTO HOLD
When you press the [AUTO HOLD]
switch, if the driver's door and engine
hood are not closed, a warning will
Brake system
sound and a message will appear on the
LCD display.
A: AUTO HOLD conditions not met.
Close door, hood and liftgate
At this moment, press the [AUTO HOLD]
button after closing the driver's door
and engine hood.
Anti-lock Brake System (ABS)
The Anti-lock Brake System (ABS) prevents the wheels from locking during
hard braking. This helps to stabilize the
vehicle and allows it to be steered.
When you apply your brakes under conditions which may lock the wheels, you
may hear a ""tik-tik' sound from the
brakes, or feel a corresponding sensation in the brake pedal. This is normal
and it means your ABS is active. In order
to obtain the maximum benefit from
your ABS in an emergency situation, do
not attempt to modulate your brake
pressure and do not try to pump your
brakes.
ABS (or ESC) will not prevent accidents
due to improper or dangerous driving
maneuvers. Even though vehicle control
is improved during emergency braking,
always maintain a safe distance
between you and objects ahead. Reduce
vehicle speed:
- When driving on rough or gravel road
- When driving on roads where the road
surface is pitted or has different surface heights.
- When approaching standing or puddled water

--- Page 254 ---
Driving your vehicle - When driving on snow-covered or icy
roads
- When driving with tire chains installed
Driving in these conditions increases the
stopping distance for your vehicle.
NOTICE
A click sound may be heard in the vehicle compartment when the vehicle
begins to move after the vehicle is
started. These conditions are normal
and indicate that the Anti-lock Brake
System is functioning properly.
Even with the Anti-lock Brake System,
your vehicle still requires sufficient stopping distance. Always maintain a safe
distance from the vehicle in front of you.
Always slow down when cornering. The
Anti-lock Brake System cannot prevent
accidents resulting from excessive
speeds.
On loose or uneven road surfaces, operation of the Anti-lock Brake System may
result in a longer stopping distance than
for vehicles equipped with a conventional brake system.
The ABS warning light will stay on for
approximately 3 seconds after the
ENGINE START/STOP button is ON.
During that time, the ABS will go through
self-diagnosis and the light will go off if
everything is normal. If the light stays on,
you may have a problem with your ABS.
Contact and visit an authorized Kia
dealer.
When you drive on a road having poor
traction, such as an icy road, and have
operated your brakes continuously, the
Brake system
ABS will be active continuously and the
ABS warning light may appear. Pull your
vehicle over to a safe place and stop the
vehicle.
Restart the vehicle. If the ABS warning
light goes off, then your ABS is normal.
Otherwise, you may have a problem
with the ABS. Contact and visit an authorized Kia dealer.
NOTICE
When you jump start your vehicle
because of a drained battery, the vehicle
may not run as smoothly and the ABS
warning light may turn on at the same
time. This happens because of low battery voltage. It does not mean your ABS
has malfunctioned.
- Do not pump your brakes!
- Have the battery recharged before
driving the vehicle.
Electronic Stability Control (ESC)
system
The Electronic Stability Control (ESC)
system can reduce the risk of spinning
or plowing during cornering maneuvers
and under certain conditions. It can
automatically brake individual wheels
and moderate engine speed to reduce
those risks. When the ESC system intervenes, you may hear a ticking sound
from the braking and feel vibration on
the brake pedal. Your engine power may
decrease.
ESC cannot intervene in all conditions,
particularly when exceeding the speed

--- Page 255 ---
Driving your vehicle
that is safe for road conditions, in slick
conditions, and when puddled water can
cause hydroplaning. Always drive at the
speed that is safest for road and
weather conditions. Avoid sharp turns
and abrupt maneuvers when driving at
speed. ESC is not a substitute for safe
driving.
WARNING
For maximum protection, always wear
your seat belt. No system, no matter
how advanced, can compensate for al
driver error and/or driving conditions.
Always drive responsibly.
The ESC system is an electronic system
designed to help the driver maintain
vehicle control under adverse conditions. It is not a substitute for safe driving practices. Factors including speed,
road conditions and driver steering input
can all affect whether ESC will be effective in preventing a loss of control. It is
still your responsibility to drive and corner at reasonable speeds and to leave a
sufficient margin of safety.
When you apply your brakes under conditions which may lock the wheels, you
may hear a "tik-tik' sound from the
brakes, or feel a corresponding sensation in the brake pedal. This is normal
and it means your ESC is active.
NOTICE
A click sound may be heard in the vehicle compartment when the vehicle
begins to move after the vehicle is
started. These conditions are normal
and indicate that the Electronic Stability
Control system is functioning properly.
Brake system
ESC operation
ESC ON condition
- When the ENGINE START/STOP button is turned ON, ESC and ESC OFF
indicator lights appear for approximately 3 seconds, then ESC is turned
on.
- Press the ESC OFF button for at least
half a second after turning the vehicle
ON to turn ESC off. (ESC OFF indicator will appear). To turn the ESC on,
press the ESC OFF button (ESC OFF
indicator light will go off).
- When starting the vehicle, you may
hear a slight ticking sound. This is the
ESC performing an automatic system
self-check and does not indicate a
problem.
When operating
When the ESC is in operation, the
ESC indicator light blinks.
When the Electronic Stability
Control is operating properly, you can
feel a slight pulsation in the vehicle. This
is only the effect of brake control and
indicates nothing unusual.
When moving out of the mud or driving
on a slippery road, pressing the accelerator pedal may not cause the vehicle
rpm (revolutions per minute) to increase.
ESC operation off
This vehicle has 2 kinds of ESC off
states.
If the vehicle stops when ESC is
off, ESC remains off. Upon restarting the
vehicle, the ESC will automatically turn
on again.

--- Page 256 ---
Driving your vehicle ONQ5041438N
ESC off state 1
To turn off the traction control function
and only operate the brake control function of the ESC, press the ESC OFF button (ESC OFF ) for less than 3
seconds and the ESC OFF indicator light
(ESC OFF ) will appear.
ESC off state 2
To turn off the traction control function
and the brake control function of the
ESC, press the ESC OFF button (ESC
OFF ) for more than 3 seconds. ESC
OFF indicator light (ESC OFF ) will
appear and ESC OFF warning chime will
sound. At this state, the vehicle stability
control function does not operate any
more.
Brake system
Indicator light
ESC indicator light
ESC OFF indicator light
When ENGINE START/STOP button is
turned to ON, the indicator light
appears, then goes off if the ESC system
is operating normally.
The ESC indicator light blinks whenever
ESC is operating or appears when ESC
fails to operate.
The ESC OFF indicator light comes on
when the ESC is turned off with the button.
WARNING
Electronic Stability Control
Drive carefuly even though your vehicle
has Electronic Stability Control. It can
only assist you in maintaining control
under certain circumstances.
ESC OFF usage
When driving
- Do not turn off ESC during ordinary
driving.
- To turn ESC off while driving, press
the ESC OFF button while driving on a
flat road surface.
WARNING
Operating ESC
Never press the ESC OFF button while
ESC is operating (ESC indicator light
blinks).

--- Page 257 ---
Driving your vehicle
Brake system
If ESC is turned off while ESC is operating, the vehicle may slip out of control.
rear stop light comes on when DBC is
activated.
NOTICE
- When operating the vehicle on a
dynamometer, ensure that the ESC is
turned off (ESC OFF light apeared). If
the ESC is left on, it may prevent the
vehicle speed from increasing, and
result in false diagnosis.
- Turning the ESC off does not affect
ABS or brake system operation.
Downhill Brake Control (DBC)
The downhill Brake Control (DBC) feature assists the driver to descend down a
steep hill without having to depress the
brake pedal.
The system automatically applies the
brakes to maintain the vehicle speed
2.5mph (4 km/h) ~ 25 mph (40 km/h)
and allows the driver to concentrate on
steering the vehicle down hill.
Always turn off the DBC on normal
roads. The DBC might activate inadvertently from the stand by mode when
driving through speed bumps or making
sharp curves.
NOTICE
The DBC defaults to the OFF position
whenever the ignition switch or ENGINE
START/STOP button is placed in the ON
position.
Noise or vibration may occur from the
brakes when the DBC is activated. The

--- Page 258 ---
Driving your vehicle Brake system
DBC operation
Mode Indicator light Description
Standby
Press the DBC button when vehicle speed is under 38 mph (60 km/h). The DBC
system will turn ON and enter the standby mode.
The system does not turn ON if vehicle speed is over 38 mph (60 km/h).
appear
Activated
blinks
In the standby mode, It enters the operating mode when the following conditions
are met.
- The road surface should be more than a certain angle of inclination
- The accelerator pedal must not be depressed.
- The vehicle speed should be within 2.5 mph (4 km/h) ~ 25 mph (40 km/h)
Within operating vehicle speed 2.5 mph (4 km/h) ~ 25 mph (40 km/h), the driver
can lower or raise the vehicle speed by stepping on the brake pedal or accelerator
pedal.
Temporarily deactivated
appear
In the activated mode, the DBC will temporarily deactivate under the following conditions:
- The hill is not steep enough.
- The accelerator pedal is depressed.
- When the vehicle speed is in the range of 25 mph (40 km/h) ~ 38 mph (60 km/
h)
If the above conditions are not met, the DBC will automatically activate again.
OFF
not appeared
The DBC will turn OFF under the following conditions:
- The DBC button is pressed again.
- When the accelerator pedal is depressed and the vehicle speed exceeds 38
mph (60 km/h)
NOTICE
If the DBC yellow indicator light appears,
the system may have overheated or
have malfunctioned. When the warning
light appears even though the DBC system has cooled off, have your vehicle
checked by an authorized Kia dealer as
soon as possible.
NOTICE
- The DBC may not deactivate on steep
inclines even though the brake or
accelerator pedal is depressed.
- The DBC does not operate when:
- The gear is in P (Park).
- The ESC is activated.

--- Page 259 ---
Driving your vehicle
Hill-start Assist Control (HAC)
A vehicle has the tendency to roll back
on a steep hill when it starts to go after
stopping. The Hill-start Assist Control
(HAC) prevents the vehicle from rolling
back by applying the brakes automatically for about 2 seconds.
The brakes are released when the accelerator pedal is engaged or after about 2
seconds.
The HAC is activated only for about 2
seconds, so when the vehicle is starting
off always engaged the accelerator
pedal.
WARNING
Maintaining brake pressure on incline
HAC does not replace the need to apply
brakes while stopped on an incline.
While stopped, make sure you maintain
brake pressure sufficient to prevent your
vehicle from rolling backward and causing an accident. Don't release the brake
pedal until you are ready to accelerate
forward.
Vehicle Stability Management
(VSM) system
The Vehicle Stability Management (VSM)
provides further enhancements to vehicle stability and steering responses
under the following condition:
- when driving on a slippery road or
- when a change in the coefficient of
friction between left and right wheels
is detected.
WARNING
Tire/wheel size
When replacing tires and wheels, make
sure they are the same size as the original tires and wheels installed. Driving
with varying tire or wheel sizes may
Brake system
diminish any supplemental safety benefits of the VSM system.
VSM operation
When the VSM is operating properly,
you can feel a slight pulsation in the
vehicle and/or abnormal steering
responses (Electric Power Steering
(EPS)). This is only the effect of brake
and EPS control and indicates nothing
unusual.
The VSM does not operate when:
- Driving on a sloping road such as a
gradient or incline
- Driving in reverse
- ESC OFF indicator light ( ) remains
on the instrument cluster
- EPS indicator light remains on the
instrument cluster
VSM operation off
If you press the ESC OFF button to turn
off the ESC, the VSM will also cancel and
the ESC OFF indicator light ( )
appears.
To turn on the VSM, press the button
again. The ESC OFF indicator light goes
out.
WARNING
Vehicle Stability Management
Drive carefuly even though your vehicle
has Vehicle Stability Management. It can
only assist you in maintaining control of
the vehicle under certain circumstances.

--- Page 260 ---
Driving your vehicle Malfunction indicator
The VSM can be deactivated even if you
don't cancel the VSM operation by
pressing the ESC OFF button. It indicates
that a malfunction has been detected
somewhere in the Electric Power Steering system or VSM system. If the ESC
indicator light ( ) or EPS warning light
remains on, take your vehicle and have
the system checked by an authorized
Kia dealer.
The VSM is not a substitute for safe driving practices but a supplementary function only. It is the responsibility of the
driver to always check the speed and the
distance to the vehicle ahead. Always
hold the steering wheel firmly while driving.
Your vehicle is designed to activate
according to the driver's intention, even
with installed VSM. Always follow all the
normal precautions for driving at safe
speeds for the conditions – including
driving in clement weather and on a slippery road.
WARNING
For maximum protection, always wear
your seat belt. No system, no matter
how advanced, can compensate for al
driver error and/or driving conditions.
Always drive responsibly.
Trailer Stability Assist (TSA) system
Trailer Stability Assist (TSA) can help stabilize the vehicle and trailer during trailer
towing by automatically braking to help
slow and stabilize the vehicle and trailer.
There are various factors that make the
vehicle sway, such as:
- High speed
Brake system
- Strong crosswinds
- Improper overloading
- Sudden controlling of steering wheel
- Uneven road
When towing, drive at a safe speed and
beware of conditions that can cause
swaying.
Brake Assistant System (BAS)
The Brake Assistant System can automatically provide additional pressure
when the brake pedal is momentarily
and strongly depressed in a sudden
braking situation.
Do not rely on the BAS. Always be alert
and maintain a safe distance from other
vehicles and objects.
BAS operation
- When the vehicle speed is more than
30 km/h and the ABS control is not
entered.
- When the brake pedal is depressed
strongly over a certain level.
- When the friction of the road surface
is above a certain level.
BAS operation off
- The vehicle speed is below 10 km/h.
- The brake pedal is depressed over a
certain conditions.
- The friction of the road surface is
below a certain level.
WARNING
The system may not operate depending
on driver's driving habit, the degree to
which the brake pedal is depressed and
the road surface condition.

--- Page 261 ---
Driving your vehicle
Active air flap
Active air flap system controls the air
flap below the front bumper to cool the
vehicle parts and improve energy efficiency.
Active air flap malfunction
A: Check Active Air Flap System
The active air flap system may not operate normally if the air flap is temporarily
opened due to foreign factors or if the
controller is contaminated by snow or
rain, etc.
When the message is popped up on the
display, stop the vehicle in a safe place
and check the status of the air flap.
Start the vehicle after performing the
necessary work like foreign matter
removal and waiting 10 minutes. If the
pop-up remains up, have the vehicle
inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.
CAUTION
- Regardless of the pop-up, if the air
flaps aren't in the same position, stop
the vehicle and wait for 10 minutes
and start the vehicle and inspect the
air flap.
- The active air flap system is actuated
by motors. Do not disturb actuation or
Brake system
apply force excessively. It may cause
failure.
NOTICE
Active air flap system could be activate
regardless of the vehicle condition.(Parking, driving, charging, etc.)

--- Page 262 ---
Driving your vehicle Good braking practices
Good braking practices help keep occupants safe and extend brake life.
- Check to be sure the parking brake is
not engaged and the parking brake
indicator light is out before driving
away.
- Driving through water may get the
brakes wet. They can also get wet
when the vehicle is washed. Wet
brakes can be dangerous! Your vehicle will not stop as quickly if the
brakes are wet. Wet brakes may
cause the vehicle to pull to one side.
To dry the brakes, apply the brakes
lightly until the braking action returns
to normal, taking care to keep the
vehicle under control at all times. If
the braking action does not return to
normal, stop as soon as it is safe to do
so and visit an authorized Kia dealer.
- Don't coast down hils with the vehicle
out of gear. This is extremely hazardous. Keep the vehicle in gear at al
times, use the brakes to slow down,
then shift to a lower gear so that vehicle braking will help you maintain a
safe speed.
- Don't "ride" the brake pedal. Resting
your foot on the brake pedal while
driving can be dangerous because the
brakes might overheat and lose their
effectiveness. It also increases the
wear of the brake components.
- If a tire goes flat while you are driving,
apply the brakes gently and keep the
vehicle pointed straight ahead while
you slow down. When you are moving
slowly enough for it to be safe to do
so, pull off the road and stop in a safe
place.
- Be cautious when parking on a hill.
Firmly engage the parking brake and
Good braking practices
place the shift lever in P. If your vehicle is facing downhill, turn the front
wheels into the curb to help keep the
vehicle from rolling.
If your vehicle is facing uphill, turn the
front wheels away from the curb to
help keep the vehicle from rolling. If
there is no curb or if it is required by
other conditions to keep the vehicle
from rolling, block the wheels.
- Under some conditions your parking
brake can freeze in the engaged position. This is most likely to happen
when there is an accumulation of
snow or ice around or near the rear
brakes or if the brakes are wet. If
there is a risk that the parking brake
may freeze, apply it only temporarily
while you put the shift lever in P
(Parking) and block the rear wheels so
the vehicle cannot roll. Then release
the parking brake.
- Do not hold the vehicle on an incline
with the accelerator pedal. This can
cause the transmission to overheat.
Always use the brake pedal or parking
brake.

--- Page 263 ---
Driving your vehicle
Vehicle Auto Shut-off system
(if equipped)
If your vehicle is parked and the engine
is left on for a long period of time, the
engine will turn off automatically to help
reduce fuel consumption and prevent
accidents caused by carbon dioxide poisoning.
Operating Conditions
Vehicle Auto-Shut Off timer operates
when all the following conditions are satisfied:
- Vehicle speed is below 2 mph (3km/
h), and the gear is shifted to P (Park)
- The brake pedal and accelerator
pedal are not depressed
- The driver's seat belt is unfastened
- The passenger seat is empty
- The infotainment system is being
updated
Deactivating Conditions
Vehicle Auto-Shut Off timer turns off
when one of the situation occur:
- Vehicle speed is above 2 mph (3 km/
h)
- The gear is shifted to R (Reverse), D
(Drive) or N (Neutral)
- The brake pedal or accelerator pedal
is depressed
- The driver's seat belt is fastened
- A passenger is in the passenger's seat
Vehicle Auto Shut-off system
System Operation
A: Vehicle will be turned off automatically in:
B: Reset
When all the conditions are satisfied, the
Vehicle Auto-Shut Off operates and
turns the engine off automatically after
60 minutes.
A timer appears on the instrument cluster 30 minutes before vehicle shut off.
Resetting cluster timer
To reset the cluster timer, do one of following:
- Release the accelerator pedal or
brake pedal after Vehicle Auto-Shut
Off is complete.
- Press the OK button on the steering
wheel while the timer appears on the
instrument cluster.
WARNING
Do not leave passengers or pets in the
vehicle with the engine running in hot or
cold weather. This is dangerous and can
lead to injury and death, and the air conditioning system will turn off when the
engine turns off.

--- Page 264 ---
Driving your vehicle Idle Stop and Go (ISG) system
The Idle Stop and Go (ISG) system
reduces fuel consumption by automatically shutting down the engine when the
vehicle is at a standstil. (For example:
red light and traffic jam)
The engine starts automatically as soon
as the starting conditions are met.
The ISG is ON whenever the engine is
running.
NOTICE
When the engine automatically starts by
the ISG system, some warning lights
(ABS, ESC, ESC OFF, EPS or Parking
brake warning light) may turn on for a
few seconds.
This happens because of low battery
voltage. It does not mean the system has
malfunctioned.
Auto stop
If you depress the brake pedal and the
vehicle comes to a stop with the ISG ON,
the engine will stop automatically.
Stop the vehicle completely by pressing
the brake pedal when the gear is in the
D (Drive) or N (Neutral) position.
The engine will stop and the green
AUTO STOP ( ) indicator on the
instrument cluster will appear.
NOTICE
If you open the engine hood in auto stop
mode, the following will happen:
Idle Stop and Go (ISG) system
A: Auto Stop is Off. Shift to P or N and
start engine manually
- The ISG system will deactivate.
- A message will appear on the LCD display.
A: Press brake pedal for Auto Start
- If you shift the gear from N to D (Manual mode) or R without depressing the
brake pedal after stopping engine
automatically, the engine does not
restart automatically and a warning
chime alarms. When this happens,
press the brake pedal for auto start.
Auto start
When the engine stops automatically by
ISG, the engine will restart if the driver
takes one of the following actions:
- Releases the brake pedal.
- Moves the shift gear to the R
(Reverse) position or the Manual
mode while depressing the brake
pedal.

--- Page 265 ---
Driving your vehicle
The engine will start and the green
AUTO STOP indicator ( ) on the
instrument cluster will change to white.
The engine will also restart automatically without any driver
actions if the following occurs:
- The brake vacuum pressure is low.
- The engine has stopped for about 5
minutes.
- The air conditioning is ON with the fan
speed set to the highest position.
- The front defroster is ON.
- The battery is weak.
- The cooling and heating performance
of the climate control system is unsatisfactory.
- The vehicle is shifted to P (Park) when
Auto Hold is activated.
- The door is opened or the seatbelt is
unfastened when Auto Hold is activated.
- The EPB switch is pressed when Auto
Hold is activated.
Operating conditions
The ISG will operate under the following
condition:
- The driver's seatbelt is fastened.
- The driver's door and hood are closed.
- The brake vacuum pressure is adequate.
- The battery sensor is activated and
the battery is sufficiently charged.
Idle Stop and Go (ISG) system
- Outside temperature is not too low or
too high.
- The vehicle is driven over a constant
speed and stops.
- The climate control system satisfies
the conditions.
- The vehicle is sufficiently warmed up.
- The incline is gradual.
- The steering wheel is turned less than
180 degrees and then the vehicle
stops.
NOTICE
- If the ISG system does not meet the
operation condition, the ISG system is
deactivated. If the ISG does not operate, the reason for the non-operation
will appear on the LCD display (if
equipped).
- If the light or warning message comes
on continuously, please check the
operation condition.
- ISG system will be activated with the
vehicle equipped with Smart Cruise
Control if the operating conditions are
met.

--- Page 266 ---
Driving your vehicle Deactivating the ISG
- If you wish to deactivate the ISG,
press the ISG OFF button. The light on
the ISG OFF button will illuminate.
- If you press the ISG OFF button again,
the ISG will be activated and the light
on the ISG OFF button will turn off.
ISG malfunction
The ISG may not operate when an ISG
related sensor or system error occurs.
The following will happen:
- The yellow AUTO STOP ( ) indicator on the instrument cluster will
appear.
When the engine is in Idle Stop mode, it's
possible to restart the engine without
the driver taking any action. Before leaving the vehicle or doing anything in the
engine compartment, stop the engine by
the ENGINE START/STOP button to the
OFF position.
Idle Stop and Go (ISG) system
NOTICE
If the AGM battery is reconnected or
replaced, ISG function will not operate
immediately. If you want to use the ISG
function, the battery sensor needs to be
calibrated for approximately 4 hours
with the ignition off. After calibration,
turn the engine on and off 2 or 3 times.
Smart ISG features
Early Engine Restart
If the engine was stopped automatically
by ISG, Early Engine Restart can automatically restart the engine from ISG
without driver action when the vehicle
ahead puls away and the front view
camera detects the preceding vehicle's
movement.
If the engine restarts automatically by
the Early Engine Restart function, a message will appear on the LCD display (if
equipped) when the "AUTO STOP" page
on the instrument cluster is selected.

--- Page 267 ---
Driving your vehicle
- A: Timer
- B: Auto Start: vehicle ahead is driving away
NOTICE
- Even when the preceding vehicle
drives away, the Early Engine Restart
function may not restart the engine in
case of limitations of the front view
camera which can detect the preceding vehicle's movement.
- Regarding the limitations of the front
view camera, please refer to Limitations of Smart ISG features
- If the engine was turned off by ISG, it
can be restarted anytime by releasing
the brake pedal, regardless of Early
Engine Restart.
ISG inhibition at traffic signs
(STOP/YIELD/Roundabout)
ISG inhibition at traffic signs can deactivate the ISG system and keep the engine
on when stopped at certain traffic signs
(STOP/YIELD/Roundabout).
If a STOP, YIELD or Roundabout sign is
detected and the ISG system is deactivated by ISG inhibition at traffic signs, a
Idle Stop and Go (ISG) system
message will appear on the LCD display
(if equipped) when the "AUTO STOP"
page on the instrument cluster is
selected.
- A: Timer
- B: Auto Stop paused. STOP sign
detected
- A: Timer
- B: Auto Stop paused. YIELD sign
detected
- A: Timer
- B: Auto Stop paused. Roundabout
sign detected

--- Page 268 ---
Driving your vehicle Idle Stop and Go (ISG) system
NOTICE
- Even when stopped at a STOP, YIELD,
or Roundabout sign, this feature may
not deactivate the ISG system in case
of limitations of the front view camera
which is able to detect traffic signs
ahead.
- Regarding the limitations of the front
view camera, please refer to Limitations of Smart ISG features.
WARNING
Limitations of Smart ISG features
- Smart ISG features may not operate
normally, or may operate unexpectedly, under the following circumstances:
- The detecting sensor or the surroundings are contaminated or
damaged
- The temperature around the front
view camera is high or low due to
surrounding environment
- The camera lens is contaminated
due to tinted, filmed or coated
windshield, damaged glass, or
sticky foreign material (sticker, bug,
etc.) on the glass
- Moisture is not removed or frozen
on the windshield
- Driving in heavy rain or snow, or
thick fog
- The field of view of the front view
camera is obstructed by sun glare
- Street light or light from an oncoming vehicle is reflected on the wet
road surface, such as a puddle on
the road
- Your vehicle is being towed
- The surroundings are very bright
- The surroundings are very dark.
- The brightness changes suddenly,
for example when entering or exiting a tunnel
- The brightness outside is low, and
the headlamps are not on or are
not bright
- Only part of the vehicle is detected
- The vehicle in front is a bus, heavy
truck, truck with a unusually
shaped luggage, trailer, etc.
- The vehicle in front has no tail
lights, tail lights are located unusually, etc.
- The rear of the front vehicle is small
or the vehicle does not look normal,
such as when the vehicle is tilted,
overturned, or the side of the vehicle is visible, etc.
- The front vehicle's ground clearance is low or high
- A vehicle, pedestrian or cyclist suddenly cuts in front
- The vehicle in front is detected late
- The vehicle in front is suddenly
blocked by an obstacle
- The vehicle in front suddenly
changes lane or suddenly reduces
speed
- The vehicle in front is bent out of
shape
- The vehicle in front steers in the
opposite direction of your vehicle to
avoid a collision
- With a vehicle in front, your vehicle
changes lane at low speed
- The vehicle in front is covered with
snow
- You are departing or returning to
the lane
- Unstable driving

--- Page 269 ---
Driving your vehicle
- You are on a roundabout and the
vehicle in front is not detected
- You are continuously driving in a
circle
- The vehicle in front has an unusual
shape
- Some traffic signs may not be
detected by the front view camera
under the following circumstances:
- If located uphill or downhill away
from the vehicle
- If located multiple lanes away from
the vehicle
- If partially or entirely blocked or
covered by another vehicle, tree, or
any obstacles
- If damaged or alternated by stickers, graffiti, etc.
- If turned away from the vehicle
Drive mode integrated control system
Drive mode integrated control
system
Drive mode
The drive mode may be selected according to the driver's preference or road
condition.
Type A
Type B
Type C
The Drive mode is activated by turning
the knob.
NOTICE
If there is a problem with the instrument
cluster, the drive mode will be in NOR-
MAL mode and may not change to
SPORT mode.
The mode changes when you toggle the
DRIVE MODE button.

--- Page 270 ---
Driving your vehicle ONQ5041443N
When NORMAL mode is selected, it is
not displayed on the instrument cluster.
- SMART mode:
SMART mode automatically adjusts
the driving mode in accordance with
the driver's driving habits.
- SPORT mode:
SPORT mode provides sporty but firm
riding.
- NORMAL mode:
NORMAL mode provides soft driving
and comfortable riding.
The drive mode will change to NORMAL
mode when the engine is restarted.
However, except when it is in SMART
mode. SMART mode will be maintained,
as selected when the engine is restarted.
When changing the drive mode setting,
the responsiveness of the Smart Cruise
Control changes. (If equipped)
Drive Mode SCC Responsiveness
SMART Normal
SPORT Fast
NORMAL Normal
Drive mode integrated control system
SMART mode
SMART mode selects the proper driving
mode among NORMAL, and SPORT by
judging the driver's driving habits (i.e.,
Economic or Aggressive (Sportive)) from
the brake pedal depression or the steering wheel operation.
- Toggle the DRIVE MODE button to
select SMART mode. When SMART
mode is selected, the indicator
appears on the instrument cluster.
- SMART mode automatically controls
the vehicle driving, such as gear shifting patterns and engine torque, in
accordance with the driver's driving
habits.
NOTICE
When you dynamically drive the vehicle
in SMART mode by abruptly decelerating or sharply turning the driving mode
changes to SPORT mode. However, it
may adversely affect fuel economy.
Various driving situations, which
you may encounter in SMART
mode
- The driving mode automatically
changes to SMART COMFORT mode
after a certain period of time, when
you gently press the accelerator pedal
(Your driving is categorized to be economical.).
- The driving mode automatically
changes to SMART SPORT, when you
abruptly accelerate the vehicle or
repetitively operate the steering wheel
(Your driving is categorized to be
aggressive.). In this mode, your vehicle drives in a lower gear for abrupt
accelerating/ decelerating and

--- Page 271 ---
Driving your vehicle
increases the engine brake performance.
- You may still sense the engine brake
performance, even when you release
the accelerator pedal in SMART
SPORT mode. It is because your vehicle remains to be in a lower gear over
a certain period of time for next acceleration. Thus, it is a normal driving situation, not indicating any malfunction.
- The driving mode automatically
changes to SMART SPORT mode only
in harsh driving situations. In most of
the normal driving situations, the driving mode sets to be in SMART COM-
FORT mode.
Limitation of SMART mode
The SMART mode may be limited in following situations. (The OFF indicator
appears in those situations.)
- Cruise Control or Smart Cruise Control is activated:
Cruise Control or Smart Cruise Control may deactivate the SMART mode
when the vehicle is controlled by the
set speed of Cruise Control or Smart
Cruise Control. (SMART mode is not
deactivated just by activating Cruise
Control or Smart Cruise Control.)
- The transmission oil temperature is
either extremely low or extremely
high:
The SMART mode can be active in
most of the normal driving situations.
However, an extremely high/ low
transmission oil temperature may
temporarily deactivate the SMART
mode, because the transmission condition is out of normal operation condition.
Drive mode integrated control system
SPORT mode
SPORT mode manages the driving
dynamics by automatically adjusting the
steering effort, the engine and transmission control logic for enhanced driver
performance.
- When SPORT mode is selected by
using the DRIVE MODE button, the
SPORT indicator will appear.
- Whenever the engine is restarted, the
Drive Mode will revert back to NOR-
MAL mode. If SPORT mode is desired,
re-select SPORT mode from the
DRIVE MODE button.
- When SPORT mode is activated:
- The engine rpm will tend to remain
raised over a certain length of time
even after releasing the accelerator
- Upshifts are delayed when accelerating
NOTICE
In SPORT mode, the fuel efficiency may
decrease.

--- Page 272 ---
Driving your vehicle Economical operation
Your vehicle's fuel economy depends
mainly on your style of driving, where
you drive and when you drive.
Each of these factors affects how many
kilometers (miles) you can get from a
liter (galon) of fuel. To operate your
vehicle as economically as possible, use
the following driving suggestions to help
save money in both fuel and repairs:
- Drive smoothly. Accelerate at a moderate rate. Don't make "jackrabbit"
starts or full-throttle shifts and maintain a steady cruising speed. Don't
race between stoplights. Try to adjust
your speed to the traffic so you don't
have to change speeds unnecessarily. Avoid heavy traffic whenever possible.
Always maintain a safe distance from
other vehicles so you can avoid
unnecessary braking. This also
reduces brake wear.
- Drive at a moderate speed. The faster
you drive, the more fuel your vehicle
uses. Driving at a moderate speed,
especially on the highway, is one of
the most effective ways to reduce fuel
consumption.
- Take care of your tires. Keep them
inflated to the recommended pressure. Incorrect inflation, either too
much or too little, results in unnecessary tire wear. Check the tire pressures at least once a month.
- Be sure that the wheels are aligned
correctly. Improper alignment can
result from hitting curbs or driving too
fast over irregular surfaces. Poor
alignment causes faster tire wear and
may also result in other problems as
well as greater fuel consumption.
Economical operation
- Keep your vehicle in good condition.
For better fuel economy and reduced
maintenance costs, maintain your
vehicle in accordance with the maintenance schedule in "Scheduled maintenance service" on page 8-8. If you
drive your vehicle in severe conditions, more frequent maintenance is
required (Refer to "Scheduled maintenance service" on page 8-8).
- Travel lightly. Don't carry unnecessary
weight in your vehicle. Weight
reduces fuel economy.
- Don't let the engine idle longer than
necessary. If you are waiting (and not
in traffic), turn off your engine and
restart only when you're ready to go.
- Don't "lug" or "over-rev" the engine.
Lugging is driving too slowly in too
high a gear resulting in the engine
bucking. If this happens, shift to a
lower gear. Over-revving is racing the
engine beyond its safe limit. This can
be avoided by shifting at the recommended speeds.
- Open windows at high speeds can
reduce fuel economy.
- Fuel economy is less in crosswinds
and headwinds. To help offset some
of this loss, slow down when driving in
these conditions.
Keeping a vehicle in good operating
condition is important both for economy
and safety.
Therefore, have the function checked by
an authorized Kia dealer.

--- Page 273 ---
Driving your vehicle
Special driving conditions
WARNING
Engine off during motion
Never turn the engine off to coast down
hils or anytime the vehicle is in motion.
The power steering and power brakes
will not function properly without the
engine running. In addition, turning off
the ignition while driving could engage
the steering wheel lock resulting in loss
of vehicle steering. Keep the engine on
and downshift to an appropriate gear for
engine braking effect.
Special driving conditions
If driving conditions deteriorate due to
poor weather or road conditions, you
should pay even more attention than
usual to your driving.
Hazardous driving conditions
When hazardous driving conditions are
encountered such as water, snow, ice,
mud, sand, or similar hazards, follow
these suggestions:
- Drive cautiously and allow extra distance for braking.
- Avoid sudden braking or steering.
- Do not pump the brake pedal on a
vehicle equipped with ABS.
- If staled in snow, mud, or sand, use
the second gear. Accelerate slowly to
avoid spinning the drive wheels.
- Use sand, rock salt, or other nonslip
material under the drive wheels to
provide traction when staled in ice,
snow, or mud.
Reducing the risk of a rollover
This multi-purpose passenger vehicle is
defined as a Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV).
Utility vehicles have a significantly
higher rollover rate than other types of
vehicles. SUVs have higher ground
clearance and a narrower track to make
them capable of performing in a wide
variety of offroad applications.
Specific design characteristics give them
a higher center of gravity than ordinary
vehicles. An advantage of the higher
ground clearance is a better view of the
road, which allows you to anticipate
problems.
They are not designed for cornering at
the same speeds as conventional passenger vehicles, any more than low-

--- Page 274 ---
Driving your vehicle slung sports vehicles are designed to
perform satisfactorily in off-road conditions. Due to this risk, driver and passengers are strongly recommended to
buckle their seat belts.
In a rollover crash, an unbelted person is
significantly more likely to die than a
person wearing a seat belt. There are
steps that a driver can make to reduce
the risk of a rollover.
If at all possible, avoid sharp turns or
abrupt maneuvers, do not load your roof
rack with heavy cargo, and never modify
your vehicle in any way.
WARNING
Rollover
As with other Sports Utility Vehicle
(SUV), failure to operate this vehicle correctly may result in loss of control, an
accident or vehicle rollover.
- Utility vehicles have a significantly
higher rollover rate than other types
of vehicles.
- Specific design characteristics (higher
ground clearance, narrower track,
etc.) give this vehicle a higher center
of gravity than ordinary vehicles.
- A SUV is not designed for cornering at
the same speeds as conventional
vehicles.
- Avoid sharp turns or abrupt maneuvers.
- In a rollover crash, an unbelted person
is significantly more likely to die than
a person wearing a seat belt. Make
sure everyone in the vehicle is properly buckled up.
Special driving conditions
WARNING
Your vehicle is equipped with tires
designed to provide safe ride and handling capability. Do not use tires and
wheels that are different in size and type
from the originally installed ones. It can
affect the safety and performance of
your vehicle, which could lead to steering failure or rollover and serious injury.
When replacing the tires, be sure to
equip all four tires with the tire and
wheel of the same size, type, tread,
brand and load-carrying capacity.
Rocking the vehicle
If it is necessary to rock the vehicle to
free it from snow, sand, or mud, first
turn the steering wheel right and left to
clear the area around your front wheels.
Then, shift back and forth between R
(Reverse) and any forward gear.
Do not race the engine, and spin the
wheels as little as possible. If you are still
stuck after a few tries, have the vehicle
puled out by a tow vehicle to avoid
engine overheating and possible damage to the transmission.
WARNING
Sudden vehicle movement
Do not attempt to rock the vehicle if
people or objects are nearby. The vehicle may suddenly move forward or
backwards as it becomes unstuck.
CAUTION
Vehicle rocking
Prolonged rocking may cause vehicle
overheating, transmission damage or
failure, and tire damage.

--- Page 275 ---
Driving your vehicle
CAUTION
Spinning tires
Do not spin the wheels, especially at
speeds more than 35 mph (56 km/h).
Spinning the wheels at high speeds
when the vehicle is stationary could
overheat and damage tires, and the
rotating wheels may fly away and injure
bystanders.
NOTICE
The Electronic Stability Control (ESC)
should be turned OFF prior to rocking
the vehicle.
Smooth cornering
Avoid braking or gear changing in corners, especially when roads are wet. Ideally, corners should always be taken
under gentle acceleration. If you follow
these suggestions, tire wear will be held
to a minimum.
Special driving conditions
Driving at night
Because night driving presents more
hazards than driving in the daylight,
here are some important tips to remember:
- Slow down and keep more distance
between you and other vehicles, as it
may be more difficult to see at night,
especially in areas where there may
not be any street lights.
- Adjust your mirrors to reduce the
glare from other driver's headlamps.
- Keep your headlamps clean and properly aimed. (On vehicles not equipped
with the automatic headlamp aiming
feature.) Dirty or improperly aimed
headlamps will make it much more
difficult to see at night.
- Avoid staring directly at the headlamps of oncoming vehicles. You
could be temporarily blinded, and it
will take several seconds for your eyes
to readjust to the darkness.

--- Page 276 ---
Driving your vehicle Driving in the rain
Rain and wet roads can make driving
dangerous, especially if you're not prepared for the slick pavement.
Here are a few things to consider when
driving in the rain:
- A heavy rainfal will make it harder to
see and will increase the distance
needed to stop your vehicle, so slow
down.
- Keep your windshield wiping equipment in good shape. Replace your
windshield wiper blades when they
show signs of streaking or missing
areas on the windshield.
- If your tires are not in good condition,
making a quick stop on wet pavement
can cause a skid and possibly lead to
an accident. Be sure your tires are in
good shape.
- Turn on your headlamps to make it
easier for others to see you.
- Driving too fast through large puddles
can affect your brakes. If you must go
through puddles, try to drive through
them slowly.
- If you believe you may have gotten
your brakes wet, apply them lightly
while driving until normal braking
operation returns.
Special driving conditions
Hydroplaning
If the road is wet enough and you are
going fast enough, your vehicle may
have little or no contact with the road
surface and actually ride on the water.
The best advice is SLOW DOWN when
the road is wet.
The risk of hydroplaning increases as
the depth of tire tread decreases,
refer to"Tires and wheels" on page 8-29.
Driving in flooded areas
Avoid driving through flooded areas
unless you are sure the water is no
higher than the bottom of the wheel
hub. Drive through any water slowly.
allow adequate stopping distance
because brake performance may be
affected.
After driving through water, dry the
brakes by gently applying them several
times while the vehicle is moving slowly.
Highway driving
Tires
Adjust the tire inflation pressures to
specification. Low tire inflation pressures
will result in overheating and possible
failure of the tires.

--- Page 277 ---
Driving your vehicle
Avoid using worn or damaged tires
which may result in reduced traction or
tire failure.
Never exceed the maximum tire inflation
pressure shown on the tires.
WARNING
Under/over inflated tires
Always check the tires for proper inflation before driving. Under inflated or
overinflated tires can cause poor handling, loss of vehicle control, and sudden
tire failure, leading to accidents, injuries,
and even death. For proper tire pressures, refer to "Tires and wheels" on
page 8-29.
WARNING
Tire tread
Always check the tire tread before driving your vehicle. Worn-out tires can
result in loss of vehicle control. Worn-out
tires should be replaced as soon as possible. For further information and tread
limits, refer to "Tires and wheels" on
page 8-29.
Fuel, engine coolant and engine
oil
High speed travel consumes more fuel
than urban motoring. Do not forget to
check both the engine coolant and
engine oil.
Drive belt
A loose or damaged drive belt may
result in overheating of the engine.
Winter driving
Winter driving
Winter driving presents additional challenges and risks.
Snowy or icy conditions
Pay particular attention to your speed, to
other vehicles, and to road conditions
when it is snowy and icy.
Snow and ice reduce road friction.
Speed increases the risk of a loss of control. Sudden brake applications on
snowy or icy roads may cause skids to
occur. Apply the brakes gently whenever
possible. Use engine braking to further
reduce the risk of skidding. Avoid abrupt
maneuvers.
Electronic Stability Control, Traction
Control and Anti-lock brakes can reduce
the risk of skidding to some extent, but
are no substitute for reducing speed,
braking moderately, and avoiding
abrupt maneuvers.
It may sometimes be necessary or advisable to use snow tires or tire chains or
both. follow the instructions below. Note
that snow tires and chains do not reduce
the risks of speeding, sudden braking, or
abrupt maneuvers.
WARNING
Failure to follow the instructions above
can lead to serious injury and death.
Snow tires
If you mount snow tires on your vehicle,
make sure they are radial tires of the
same size and load range as the original
tires. Mount snow tires on all four wheels
to balance your vehicle's handling in al
weather conditions. Do not install studded tires without first checking local,

--- Page 278 ---
Driving your vehicle state and municipal regulations for possible restrictions against their use.
WARNING
Failure to follow the instructions above
can lead to serious injury and death.
Tire chains
wire-type
fabric-type
Since the sidewals of radial tires are
thinner, they can be damaged by
mounting some types of snow chains on
them. Therefore, the use of snow tires is
recommended instead of snow chains.
Do not mount tire chains on vehicles
equipped with aluminum wheels; snow
chains may cause damage to the
wheels. If snow chains must be used, use
fabric-type chains for 18/19 inch tires or
wire-type chains for 17 inch tires with a
thickness of less than 0.47 inches (12
mm).
Damage to your vehicle caused by
improper snow chain use is not covered
by your vehicle manufacturers warranty.
When using tire chains, attach them to
the drive wheels as follows.
Winter driving
* FWD/AWD: Front Wheel Drive
- Front wheel drive vehicle moves the
front wheel as a power source. Thus,
snow chains must be mounted to
front tires.
- Al wheel drive vehicle must mount
snow chains to front tires only. In this
case, minimize the driving distance in
order to prevent damage to the al
wheel drive system.
- After mounting snow chains, drive
slowly. If you hear noise caused by
chains contacting the body, slow
down until the noise stops and
remove the chain as soon as you
begin driving on cleared roads to prevent damage.
- Wrong size chains or improperly
installed chains can damage your
vehicle's brake lines, suspension,
body and wheels. Therefore, when
installing snow chain, follow the manufacturer's instructions and mount
them as tightly as possible. Drive
slowly (less than 20 mph (30 km/h))
with chains installed.
CAUTION
- Make sure the snow chains are the
correct size and type for your tires.
Incorrect snow chains can cause damage to the vehicle body and suspension and may not be covered by your
vehicle manufacturer warranty. Also,
the snow chain connecting hooks may
be damaged from contacting vehicle
components causing the snow chains
to come loose from the tire. Make sure
the snow chains are SAE class "S" certified.
- Always check chain installation for
proper mounting after driving approximately 0.3 to 0.6 miles (0.5 to 1 km)

--- Page 279 ---
Driving your vehicle
to ensure safe mounting. Retighten or
remount the chains if they are loose.
- Fabric-type chains must be used on
the vehicle with 18/19 inch (235/
60R18, 235/55R19) tires.
Use high quality ethylene glycol
coolant
Your vehicle is delivered with high quality ethylene glycol coolant in the cooling
system. It is the only type of coolant that
should be used because it helps prevent
corrosion in the cooling system, lubricates the water pump and prevents
freezing. Be sure to replace or replenish
your coolant in accordance with the
maintenance schedule in section 8.
Before winter, have your coolant tested
to assure that its freezing point is sufficient for the temperatures anticipated
during the winter.
Check battery and cables
Winter puts additional burdens on the
battery system. Visually inspect the battery and cables as described in section
8. Have the level of charge in your battery checked by an authorized Kia
dealer.
Change to "winter weight" oil if
necessary
In some climates it is recommended that
a lower viscosity "winter weight" oil be
used during cold weather. See "Recommended lubricants and capacities" on
page 9-7. If you aren't sure what weight
oil you should use, consult an authorized
Kia dealer.
Winter driving
Check spark plugs and ignition
system
Inspect your spark plugs as described in
"Scheduled maintenance service" on
page 8-8 and replace them if necessary.
Also check all ignition wiring and components to be sure they are not cracked,
worn or damaged in any way.
To keep locks from freezing
To keep the locks from freezing, squirt
an approved de-icer fluid or glycerine
into the key opening. If a lock is covered
with ice, squirt it with an approved deicing fluid to remove the ice. If the lock is
frozen internally, you may be able to
thaw it out by using a heated key. Handle the heated key with care to avoid
injury.
Use approved window washer
anti-freeze in system
To keep the water in the window washer
system from freezing, add an approved
window washer anti-freeze solution in
accordance with instructions on the container. Window washer anti-freeze is
available from an authorized Kia dealer
and most auto parts outlets. Do not use
engine coolant or other types of antifreeze as these may damage the paint
finish.
Don't let your parking brake
freeze
Under some conditions your parking
brake can freeze in the engaged position. This is most likely to happen when
there is an accumulation of snow or ice
around or near the rear brakes or if the
brakes are wet. If there is a risk the parking brake may freeze, temporarily apply

--- Page 280 ---
Driving your vehicle Winter driving
it with the gear in P (Park). Also, block
the rear wheels in advance, so the vehicle may not roll. Then release the parking brake.
Don't let ice and snow accumulate underneath
Under some conditions, snow and ice
can build up under the fenders and
interfere with the steering. When driving
in severe winter conditions where this
may happen, you should periodically
check underneath the vehicle to be sure
the movement of the front wheels and
the steering components is not
obstructed.
ning, water vapor may condense and
accumulate inside the exhaust pipes.
Water in the exhaust pipes may cause
noise, etc., but it is drained driving at
medium to high speed.
Carry emergency equipment
Depending on the severity of the
weather, you should carry appropriate
emergency equipment. Some of the
items you may want to carry include tire
chains, tow straps or chains, flashlight,
emergency flares, sand, shovel, jumper
cables, window scraper, gloves, ground
cloth, coverals, blanket, etc.
Do not place objects or materials
in the engine compartment
Putting objects or materials in the
engine compartment may cause an
engine failure or combustion, because
they may block the engine cooling. Such
damage will not be covered by the manufacturer's warranty.
Drive your vehicle when water
vapor condenses and accumulates inside the exhaust pipes
When the vehicle is stopped for a long
time in winter while the engine is run-

--- Page 281 ---
Driving your vehicle
Trailer towing (if equipped)
If you are considering towing with your
vehicle, you should first check with your
country's Department of Motor Vehicles
to determine their legal requirements.
Since laws vary the requirements for
towing trailers, cars, or other types of
vehicles or apparatus may differ. Ask an
authorized Kia dealer.
WARNING
Towing a trailer
If you don't use the correct equipment
and drive improperly, you can lose control when you pull a trailer. For example,
if the trailer is too heavy, the brakes may
not work well - or even at al. You and
your passengers could be seriously or
fatally injured. Pull a trailer only if you
have followed all the steps in this section.
WARNING
Weight limits
Before towing, make sure the total trailer
weight, gross combination weight, gross
vehicle weight, gross axle weight and
trailer tongue load are all within the limits.
CAUTION
Any part of the rear number plate or
lighting devices of the vehicle must not
be obscured by the mechanical coupling
device. If the rear number plate and/or
lighting devices can be obscured partially by any part of the mechanical coupling device, mechanical coupling
devices that can not be easily removed
or repositioned without use of any tool,
except an easily operated (i.e. an effort
not exceeding 20 N·m) release key
Trailer towing
which is supplied by the manufacturer of
the coupling device, are not permitted
for use. Please note that the mechanical
coupling device that is fitted and not in
use must always be removed or repositioned if the rear number plate and/or
rear lighting devices are obscured by
any part of the mechanical coupling
device.
NOTICE
- The technically permissible maximum
load on the rear axle(s) may be
exceeded by not more than 15 % and
the technically permissible maximum
laden mass of the vehicle may be
exceeded by not more than 10 % or
220.4 lbs (100 kg), whichever value is
lower. In this case, do not exceed 60
mph (100 km/h) for vehicle of category M1 or 50 mph (80 km/h) for
vehicle of category N1.
- When towing a trailer, the additional
load imposed at the trailer coupling
device may cause the rear tire maximum load ratings to be exceeded, but
not by more than 15%. In such a case,
do not exceed 60 miles (100km/h),
and the rear tire pressure should be at
least 0.2 bar (20 kPa) above the tire
pressure(s) as recommended for normal use (i.e. without a trailer
attached).
CAUTION
pulling a trailer improperly can damage
your vehicle and result in costly repairs
not covered by your warranty. To pull a
trailer correctly, follow the advice in this
section.

--- Page 282 ---
Driving your vehicle Your vehicle can tow a trailer. To identify
what the vehicle trailering capacity is for
your vehicle, refer to "Weight of the
trailer" on page 5-68 that appears later
in this section.
Remember that trailering is different
than just driving your vehicle by itself.
Trailering means changes in handling,
durability, and fuel economy. Successful,
safe trailering requires correct equipment, and it has to be used properly.
This section contains many timetested,
important trailering tips and safety rules.
Many of these are important for your
safety and that of your passengers.
Please read this section carefuly before
you pull a trailer.
Load-pulling components such as the
engine, transmission, wheel assemblies,
and tires are forced to work harder
against the load of the added weight.
The engine is required to operate at relatively higher speeds and under greater
loads. This additional burden generates
extra heat. The trailer also considerably
adds wind resistance, increasing pulling
requirements.
Trailer towing
NOTICE
Location of trailer mounting
The mounting hole for hitches are
located on both sides of the underbody
behind the rear tires.
Hitches
It's important to have the correct hitch
equipment. Crosswinds, large trucks
going by, and rough roads are a few reasons why you'l need the right hitch.
Here are some rules to follow:
- Do you have to make any holes in the
body of your vehicle when you install
a trailer hitch? If you do, then be sure
to seal the holes later when you
remove the hitch.
If you don't seal them, deadly carbon
monoxide (CO) from your exhaust
can get into your vehicle, as well as
dirt and water.
- The bumpers on your vehicle are not
intended for hitches. Do not attach
rental hitches or other bumper-type
hitches. Use only a frame-mounted
hitch that does not attach to the
bumper.
- Any part of the rear number plate or
lighting devices of the vehicle must
not be obscured by the mechanical
coupling device. Please note that the
mechanical coupling device that is fitted and not in use must always be
removed or repositioned if the rear
number plate and/or rear lighting
devices are obscured by any part of
the mechanical coupling device.
If the rear number plate and/or lighting devices can be obscured partially
by any part of the mechanical coupling device, mechanical coupling
devices that can not be easily

--- Page 283 ---
Driving your vehicle
removed or repositioned without use
of any tools, except an easily operated
(i.e. an effort not exceeding 20Nm)
release key which is supplied by the
manufacturer of the coupling device,
are not permitted for use.
Please note that the mechanical coupling device that is fitted and not in
use must always be removed or repositioned if the rear number plate and/
or rear lighting devices are obscured
by any part of the mechanical coupling device.
- Kia trailer hitch accessory is available
at an authorized Kia dealer.
Safety chains
You should always attach chains
between your vehicle and your trailer.
Cross the safety chains under the
tongue of the trailer so that the tongue
will not drop to the road if it becomes
separated from the hitch.
Instructions about safety chains may be
provided by the hitch manufacturer or
by the trailer manufacturer. follow the
manufacturer's recommendation for
attaching safety chains. Always leave
just enough slack so you can turn with
your trailer. And, never allow safety
chains drag on the ground.
Trailer brakes
If your trailer is equipped with a braking
system, make sure it conforms to your
country's regulations and that it is properly installed and operating correctly.
If your trailer weighs more than the maximum trailer weight without trailer
brakes loaded, then it needs its own
brakes and they must be adequate. Be
sure to read and follow the instructions
for the trailer brakes so you'l be able to
Trailer towing
install, adjust and maintain them properly.
- Don't tap into your vehicle's brake
system.
WARNING
Trailer brakes
Do not use a trailer with its own brakes
unless you are absolutely certain that
you have properly set up the brake system. This is not a task for amateurs. Use
an experienced, competent trailer shop
for this work.
Driving with a trailer
Towing a trailer requires a certain
amount of experience. Before setting
out for the open road, you must get to
know your trailer. Acquaint yourself with
the feel of handling and braking with the
added weight of the trailer. And always
keep in mind that the vehicle you are
driving is now a good deal longer and
not nearly so responsive as your vehicle
is by itself.
Before you start, check the trailer hitch
and platform, safety chains, electrical
connector(s), lights, tires and mirror
adjustment. If the trailer has electric
brakes, start your vehicle and trailer
moving and then apply the trailer brake
controller by hand to be sure the brakes
are working. This lets you check your
electrical connection at the same time.
During your trip, check occasionally to
be sure that the load is secure, and that
the lights and trailer brakes are still
working.

--- Page 284 ---
Driving your vehicle Following distance
Stay at least twice as far behind the
vehicle ahead as you would when driving your vehicle without a trailer. This
can help you avoid situations that
require heavy braking and sudden turns.
Passing
You'l need more passing distance up
ahead when you're towing a trailer. And,
because of the increased vehicle length,
you'l need to go much farther beyond
the passed vehicle before you can return
to your lane.
Backing up
Hold the bottom of the steering wheel
with one hand. Then, to move the trailer
to the left, just move your hand to the
left. To move the trailer to the right,
move your hand to the right. Always
back up slowly and, if possible, have
someone guide you.
Making turns
When you're turning with a trailer, make
wider turns than normal. Do this so your
trailer won't strike soft shoulders, curbs,
road signs, trees, or other objects. Avoid
jerky or sudden maneuvers. Signal well
in advance.
Turn signals when towing a
trailer
When you tow a trailer, your vehicle has
to have a different turn signal flasher
and extra wiring. The green arrows on
your instrument panel will flash whenever you signal a turn or lane change.
Properly connected, the trailer lights will
also flash to alert other drivers you're
about to turn, change lanes, or stop.
Trailer towing
When towing a trailer, the green arrows
on your instrument panel will flash for
turns even if the bulbs on the trailer are
burned out. Thus, you may think drivers
behind you are seeing your signals
when, in fact, they are not. It's important
to check occasionally to be sure the
trailer bulbs are still working. You must
also check the lights every time you disconnect and then reconnect the wires.
Do not connect a trailer lighting system
directly to your vehicle's lighting system.
Use only an approved trailer wiring harness.
Have yourself assisted by a professional
workshop in installing the wiring harness.
Visit an authorized Kia dealer.
WARNING
Failure to use an approved trailer wiring
harness could result in damage to the
vehicle electrical system and/or personal
injury.
Detection of trailer light connection
This functionality is only given with genuine accessories (tow bar and wiring
harness) that recognize when a trailer is
connected and consequently inform the
vehicle systems. Trailer recognition
works as follows: when a trailer socket is
plugged in, either the brake pedal shall
be pushed or turn signal lamps activated; the electronic control unit will
then detect the trailer because of the
power consumption by the trailer lighting and inform the vehicle systems.
When the trailer is disconnected, the
brake pedal shall be pushed again or
turn signal lamps activated for the control unit to be able to detect that there is

--- Page 285 ---
Driving your vehicle
no power consumption anymore by
trailer lighting; the assistance systems
that were turned off will automatically
turn on again.
It is the driver's responsibility to ensure
that all electrical connections are working and all trailer lights are operating
before and during towing. You must perform manual checks.
CAUTION
Use only genuine electrical connections.
Do not attempt to arbitrarily splice or
directly connect the trailer wiring using
any other methods. Doing so may damage the vehicle's electrical system,
resulting in malfunctions.
Driving on grades
Reduce the speed and shift to a lower
gear before you start down a long or
steep downgrade. If you don't shift
down, you might have to use your
brakes so much that they would get hot
and no longer operate efficiently.
On a long uphill grade, shift down and
reduce your speed to around 45 mph
(70 km/h) to reduce the possibility of
engine and transmission overheating.
CAUTION
- When towing a trailer on steep grades
(in excess of 6 %) pay close attention
to the engine coolant temperature
gauge to ensure the engine does not
overheat. If the needle of the coolant
temperature gauge moves across the
dial towards "H (HOT) (or 260 °F/130
°C)", pull over and stop as soon as it is
safe to do so, and allow the engine to
idle until it cools down. You may proceed once the engine has cooled sufficiently.
Trailer towing
- You must decide the driving speed
depending on trailer weight and uphill
grade to reduce the possibility of
engine and transmission overheating.
Parking on hills
Generally, if you have a trailer attached
to your vehicle, you should not park your
vehicle on a hill. People can be seriously
or fatally injured, and both your vehicle
and the trailer can be damaged if unexpectedly roll down hill.
WARNING
Parking on a hill
Parking your vehicle on a hill with a
trailer attached could cause serious
injury or death, should the trailer break
loose.
However, if you ever have to park your
trailer on a hill, here's how to do it:
1. Pull the vehicle into the parking space.
Turn the steering wheel in the direction of the curb (right if headed down
hill, left if headed up hill).
2.Set the parking brake and shut off the
vehicle.
3.Place chocks under the trailer wheels
on the down hill side of the wheels.
4.Start the vehicle, hold the brakes, shift
to neutral, release the parking brake
and slowly release the brakes until the
trailer chocks absorb the load.
5.Reapply the brakes, reapply the parking brake.
6.Shut off the vehicle and release the
vehicle brakes but leave the parking
brake set.

--- Page 286 ---
Driving your vehicle WARNING
Parking brake
It can be dangerous to get out of your
vehicle if the parking brake is not firmly
set.
If you have left the engine running, the
vehicle can move suddenly. You or others could be seriously or fatally injured.
When you are ready to leave
after parking on a hill
1. Apply your brakes and hold the brake
pedal down while you:
- Start your engine;
- Shift into gear; and
- Release the parking brake.
2.Slowly remove your foot from the
brake pedal.
3.Drive slowly until the trailer is clear of
the chocks.
4.Stop and have someone pick up and
store the chocks.
Maintenance when trailer towing
Your vehicle will need service more
often when you regularly pull a trailer.
Important items to pay particular attention to include engine oil, axle lubricant
and cooling system fluid. Brake condition is another important item to frequently check. Each item is covered in
this manual, and the Index will help you
find them quickly. If you're trailering, it's
a good idea to review these sections
before you start your trip.
Don't forget to also maintain your trailer
and hitch. follow the maintenance
schedule that accompanied your trailer
and check it periodically. Preferably,
conduct the check at the start of each
Trailer towing
day's driving. Most importantly, all hitch
nuts and bolts should be tight.
CAUTION
- Due to higher load during trailer
usage, overheating might occur in hot
days or during uphill driving. If the
coolant gauge indicates overheating,
switch off the A/C and stop the vehicle in a safe area to cool down the
engine.
- When towing, check the transmission
fluid more frequently.
- If your vehicle is not equipped with an
air conditioner, you should install a
condenser fan to improve engine performance when towing a trailer.
If you do decide to pull a trailer
Here are some important points if you
decide to pull a trailer:
- Consider using a sway control. You
can ask a hitch dealer about sway
control.
- Do not do any towing with your vehicle during its first 1,200 miles (2,000
km) in order to allow the engine to
properly break in. Failure to heed this
caution may result in serious engine
or transmission damage.
- When towing a trailer, consult an
authorized Kia dealer on additional
requirements such as a towing kit, etc.
- Always drive your vehicle at a moderate speed (less than 60 mph (100 km/
h)).
- On a long uphill grade, do not exceed
45 mph (70 km/h) or the posted towing speed limit, whichever is lower.
- The chart contains important considerations that have to do with weight:

--- Page 287 ---
Driving your vehicle
Item
Maximum trailer
weight
With brake system Without brake system Maximum tongue weight Weight of the trailer
OCV051256N A: Tongue Load
B: Total Trailer Weight
What is the maximum safe weight of a
trailer? It should never weigh more than
the maximum trailer weight with trailer
brakes. But even that can be too heavy.
It depends on how you plan to use your
trailer. For example, speed, altitude, road
grades, outside temperature and how
often your vehicle is used to pull a trailer
are all important. The ideal trailer weight
can also depend on any special equipment that you have on your vehicle.
Trailer towing
Smartstream G2.5 GDi
AT
2,500 lbs. (1,134 kg)
1,653 lbs. (750 kg)
220 lbs. (100 kg)
Weight of the trailer tongue
A: Gross Axle Weight
B: Gross Vehicle Weight
The tongue load of any trailer is an
important weight to measure because it
affects the total gross vehicle weight
(GVW) of your vehicle. This weight
includes the curb weight of the vehicle,
any cargo you may carry in it, and the
people who will be riding in the vehicle.
And if you tow a trailer, you must add
the tongue load to the GVW because
your vehicle will also be carrying that
weight.
The trailer tongue should weigh a maximum of 10 % of the total loaded trailer
weight, within the limits of the maximum
trailer tongue load permissible.
After you've loaded your trailer, weigh
the trailer and then the tongue, separately, to see if the weights are proper. If
they aren't, you may be able to correct
them simply by moving some items
around in the trailer.

--- Page 288 ---
Driving your vehicle Vehicle load limit
WARNING
Trailer
- Never load a trailer with more weight
in the rear than in the front. The front
should be loaded with approximately
60% of the total trailer load; the rear
should be loaded with approximately
40% of the total trailer load.
- Never exceed the maximum weight
limits of the trailer or trailer towing
equipment. Improper loading can
result in damage to your vehicle and/
or personal injury. Check weights and
loading at a commercial scale or highway patrol office equipped with
scales.
- An improperly loaded trailer can
cause loss of vehicle control.
Vehicle load limit
The vehicle load limit is displayed
on the tire and loading information label on the driver's door.
Tire and loading information
label
The label located on the driver's
door sil gives the original tire
size, cold tire pressures recommended for your vehicle, the
number of people that can be in
your vehicle and vehicle capacity
weight.
Example for spare tire
Vehicle capacity weight:
僅5 seats: 926 lbs. (420 kg)
Vehicle capacity weight is the
maximum combined weight of
occupants and cargo. If your
vehicle is equipped with a trailer,
the combined weight includes
the tongue load.
Seating capacity:
Total: 5 persons (Front seat: 2
persons, Rear seat: 3 persons)

--- Page 289 ---
Driving your vehicle
Seating capacity is the maximum
number of occupants including a
driver, your vehicle may carry.
However, the seating capacity
may be reduced based upon the
weight of all of the occupants,
and the weight of the cargo
being carried or towed.
Do not overload the vehicle as
there is a limit to the total weight,
or load limit including occupants
and cargo, the vehicle can carry.
Towing capacity:
Smartstream G2.5 GDi
- With brake system: 2,500 lbs.
(1,134 kg)
- Without brake system: 1,653
lbs. (750 kg)
Cargo capacity:
The cargo capacity of your vehicle will increase or decrease
depending on the weight and the
number of occupants.
Steps For Determining Correct
Load Limit-
1.Locate the statement "The
combined weight of occupants
and cargo should never exceed
XXX kg or XXX lbs.' on your
vehicle's placard.
2.Determine the combined
weight of the driver and passengers that will be riding in
your vehicle.
Vehicle load limit
3.Subtract the combined weight
of the driver and passengers
from XXX kg or XXX lbs.
4.The resulting figure equals the
available amount of cargo and
luggage load capacity. For
example, if the "XXX" amount
equals 1400 lb. and there will
be five 150 lbs. passengers in
your vehicle, the amount of
available cargo and luggage
load capacity is 650 lbs. (1400-
750 (5x150) = 650 lbs.)
5.Determine the combined
weight of luggage and cargo
being loaded on the vehicle.
That weight may not safely
exceed the available cargo and
luggage load capacity calculated in Step 4.
6.If your vehicle will be towing a
trailer, load from your trailer
will be transferred to your vehicle. Consult this manual to
determine how this reduces
the available cargo and luggage load capacity of your
vehicle.
WARNING
Loose cargo
Do not travel with unsecured
blunt objects in the passenger
compartment of your vehicle
(e.g., suit cases or unsecured
child seats). These items may

--- Page 290 ---
timil bool elinev

Table: timil bool elinev

[Row Contents]
Row 1: g, pieW, 201208
Row 2: A, tripiew
Row 3: motl, noitqinozed r, IstoT

[Table Data]
| | | |
|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| g | pieW | 201208 |
| A | tripiew | |
| motl | noitqinozed r | IstoT |

Table: timil bool elinev

[Row Contents]
Headers: Solamsx]
Row 2: g, tripieW, 201008
(ex 281)
Row 3: A, tripiew
Row 4: motl, noitaineed, IstoT

[Table Data]
| Solamsx] |
|:---:|
| | | |
| g | tripieW | 201008
(ex 281) |
| A | tripiew | |
| motl | noitaineed | IstoT |

Driving your vehicle
strike an occupant during a sudden stop or crash.
Example 1
Vehicle
-
Capacity
Item Description
Vehicle Capacity
A Weight
Subtract Occupant
B Weight
150 lbs. (68 kg)x2
Available Cargo and
C Luggage weight
Example 2
Vehicle -
Capacity
Item Description
Vehicle Capacity
A Weight
Item
B
=
Vehicle
Total Capacity
849 Ibs.
(385 kg)
300lbs.
(136 kg)
549 Ibs.
(249 kg)
Item
A
= L C
Refer to your vehicle's tire and
loading information label for specific information about your vehicle's capacity weight and seating
positions. The combined weight
of the driver, passengers and
cargo should never exceed your
Total vehicle's capacity weight.
849 Ibs.
(385 kg)
Vehicle load limit
Description
Subtract Occupant
Weight
150 Ibs. (68 kg) ×5
Available Cargo and
Luggage weight
Example 3
=
Description
Vehicle Capacity
Weight
Subtract Occupant
Weight
161 Ibs. (73 kg)x5
Available Cargo and
Luggage weight
Vehicle load limit
Total
750 lbs.
(340 kg)
99 Ibs.
(45 kg)
Total
849 Ibs.
(385 kg)
805 Ibs.
(365 kg)
44 Ibs.
(20 kg)

--- Page 291 ---
Driving your vehicle
Certification label
The certification label is located
on the driver's door sil at the
center pilar.
This label shows the maximum
allowable weight of the fuly
loaded vehicle. This is caled the
GVWR (Gross Vehicle Weight
Rating). The GVWR includes the
weight of the vehicle, all occupants and cargo.
This label also tels you the maximum weight that can be supported by the front and rear
axles, caled Gross Axle Weight
Rating (GAWR).
To find out the actual loads on
your front and rear axles, you
need to go to a weigh station and
weigh your vehicle. Your dealer
can help you with this. Be sure to
spread out your load equally on
both sides of the centerline.
WARNING
Over loading
Never exceed the GVWR for your
vehicle, the GAWR for either the
front or rear axle and vehicle
capacity weight. Exceeding these
Vehicle load limit
ratings can affect your vehicle's
handling and braking ability.
The label will help you decide
how much cargo and installed
equipment your vehicle can
carry.
If you carry items inside your
vehicle - like suitcases, tools,
packages, or anything else - they
are moving as fast as the vehicle.
If you have to stop or turn
quickly, or if there is a crash, the
items will keep going and can
cause an injury if they strike the
driver or a passenger.
WARNING
Over loading
Do not overload your vehicle.
Overloading your vehicle can
cause heat buildup in your vehicle's tires and possible tire failure, increased stopping
distances and poor vehicle handling--all of which may result in a
crash.
NOTICE
Overloading your vehicle may
cause damage. Repairs would
not be covered by your warranty.
Do not overload your vehicle.

--- Page 292 ---
Driving your vehicle Vehicle weight
This section will guide you in the
proper loading of your vehicle, to
keep your loaded vehicle weight
within its design rating capability.
Properly loading your vehicle will
provide maximum return of the
vehicle design performance.
Before loading your vehicle,
familiarize yourself with the following terms for determining
your vehicle's weight ratings,
from the vehicle's specifications
and the certification label:
Base curb weight
This is the weight of the vehicle
including a full tank of fuel and
all standard equipment. It does
not include passengers, cargo, or
optional equipment.
Vehicle curb weight
This is the weight of your new
vehicle when you picked it up
from your dealer plus any aftermarket equipment.
Cargo weight
This figure includes all weight
added to the Base Curb Weight,
including cargo and optional
equipment.
GAW (Gross axle weight)
This is the total weight placed on
each axle (front and rear) -
including vehicle curb weight
and all payload.
Vehicle weight
GAWR (Gross axle weight rating)
This is the maximum allowable
weight that can be carried by a
single axle (front or rear). These
numbers are shown on the certification label.
The total load on each axle must
never exceed its GAWR.
GVW (Gross vehicle weight)
This is the Base Curb Weight plus
actual Cargo Weight plus passengers.
GVWR (Gross vehicle weight
rating)
This is the maximum allowable
weight of the fuly loaded vehicle
(including all options, equipment,
passengers and cargo). The
GVWR is shown on the certification label located on the driver's
(or front passenger's) door sil.

--- Page 293 ---
Driving your vehicle
Overloading
Overloading
Overloading
WARNING
WARNING
Vehicle weight
The gross axle weight rating
(GAWR) and the gross vehicle
weight rating (GVWR) for your
vehicle are on the certification
label attached to the driver's (or
front passenger's) door. Exceeding these ratings can cause an
accident or vehicle damage. You
can calculate the weight of your
load by weighing the items (and
people) before putting them in
the vehicle. Be careful not to
overload your vehicle.
The Gross Axle Weight Rating (GAWR)
and the Gross Vehicle Weight Rating
(GVWR) for your vehicle are on the Certification Label attached to the driver's
(or front passenger's) door. Exceeding
these ratings can cause an accident or
vehicle damage. You can calculate the
weight of your load by weighing the
items (and people) before putting them
in the vehicle. Be careful not to overload
your vehicle

--- Page 294 ---
Driver assistance system
Driver assistance system
Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA)
(Front Camera Only) 6-4
- Forward collision-Avoidance Assist settings 6-4
- Forward collision-Avoidance Assist operation 6-6
- Forward collision-Avoidance Assist malfunction
and limitations 6-8
Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Sensor Fusion)..6-13
- Forward collision-Avoidance Assist settings 6-14
- Forward collision-Avoidance Assist operation 6-16
- Forward collision-Avoidance Assist malfunction and
limitations 6-19
Lane Keeping Assist (LKA) 6-25
- Lane Keeping Assist settings 6-26
- Lane Keeping Assist operation 6-27
- Lane Keeping Assist malfunction and limitations 6-29
Blind-Spot Collision-Avoidance Assist (BCA) 6-31
- Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist settings 6-32
- Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist operation 6-34
- Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist malfunction and
limitations 6-37
Safe Exit Warning (SEW) 6-41
- Safe Exit Warning settings 6-41
- Safe Exit Warning operation 6-42
- Safe Exit Warning malfunction and limitations 6-43
Manual Speed Limit Assist (MSLA) 6-45
- Manual Speed Limit Assist operation 6-45
Intelligent Speed Limit Assist (ISLA) 6-47
- intelligent Speed Limit Assist settings 6-47
- Warning Methods 6-48
- intelligent Speed Limit Assist operation 6-49

--- Page 295 ---
6 Driver assistance system
- intelligent Speed Limit Assist malfunction and limitations 6-50
Driver Attention Warning (DAW) 6-52
- Driver Attention Warning settings 6-53
- Driver Attention Warning operation 6-54
- Driver Attention Warning malfunction and limitations 6-56
Cruise Control (CC) 6-58
- Cruise Control operation 6-58
Smart Cruise Control (SCC) 6-60
- Smart Cruise Control settings 6-61
- Smart Cruise Control operation 6-64
- Smart Cruise Control display and control 6-64
- Smart Cruise Control malfunction and limitations 6-68
Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control (NSCC) 6-72
- Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control settings 6-73
- Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control operation 6-73
- Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control limitations 6-75
Lane Following Assist (LFA) 6-78
- Lane following Assist settings 6-78
- Lane following Assist operation 6-79
- Lane following Assist malfunction and limitations 6-81
Highway Driving Assist (HDA) 6-81
- Highway Driving Assist settings 6-82
- Highway Driving Assist operation 6-83
- Highway Driving Assist malfunction and limitations 6-85
Rear View Monitor (RVM) 6-87
- Rear View Monitor settings 6-87
- Rear View Monitor operation 6-88
- Rear View Monitor malfunction and limitations 6-89
Blind-Spot View Monitor (BVM) 6-90
- Blind-Spot View Monitor settings 6-90

--- Page 296 ---
Driver assistance system
- Blind-Spot View Monitor operation 6-90
- Blind-Spot View Monitor malfunction 6-91
Surround View Monitor (SVM) 6-91
- Surround View Monitor settings 6-92
- Surround View Monitor operation 6-93
- Surround View Monitor malfunction and limitations 6-95
Rear Cross-Traffic Collision-Avoidance Assist (RCCA) 6-96
- Rear Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance Assist settings 6-96
- Rear Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance Assist operation 6-98
- Rear Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance Assist malfunction
and limitations 6-101
Reverse Parking Distance Warning (PDW) 6-104
- Reverse Parking Distance Warning settings 6-104
- Reverse Parking Distance Warning operation 6-105
- Reverse Parking Distance Warning malfunction and
precautions 6-106
Forward/Reverse Parking Distance Warning (PDW) 6-107
- Forward/Reverse Parking Distance Warning settings 6-108
- Forward/Reverse Parking Distance Warning operation 6-108
- Forward/Reverse Parking Distance Warning malfunction and
precautions 6-110
Reverse Parking Collision-Avoidance Assist (PCA) 6-112
- Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance Assist settings 6-112
- Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance Assist operation 6-113
- Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance Assist malfunction and limitations 6-114
Declaration of conformity 6-118

--- Page 297 ---
Driver assistance system
Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Front Camera Only)
Driver assistance system
INFORMATION
Due to the infotainment software version, the description of each function of
the driver assistance system may differ
from the owner's manual.
Forward Collision-Avoidance
Assist (FCA) (Front Camera
Only) (if equipped)
- If the detecting sensors have been
replaced or repaired, have the vehicle
inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.
- Never install any accessories or stickers on the front windshield, or tint the
front windshield.
- Pay extreme caution to keep the front
view camera dry.
- Never place any reflective objects (i.e.
white paper, mirror) over the dashboard.
Forward Collision-Avoidance
Assist settings
Forward Safety
Forward collision-Avoidance Assist is
designed to help detect and monitor the
vehicle ahead or help detect a pedestrian or cyclist in the roadway and warn
the driver that a collision is imminent
with a warning message and an audible
warning, apply emergency braking.
Detecting sensor
Front view camera
Refer to the picture above for the
detailed location of the detecting sensor.
CAUTION
- Never disassemble the detecting sensor or sensor assembly, or apply any
impact on it.
A: Driver Assistance
1 Forward Safety
2 Active Assist
3 Warning Only
4 Off
With the vehicle on, select Settings→
Driver Assistance → Forward Safety
from the User Settings menu or select
Settings→ Vehicle → Driver Assistance → Forward Safety from the infotainment system to set whether or not to
use each function.

--- Page 298 ---
Driver assistance system Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Front Camera Only)
- Active Assist: Forward collision-
Avoidance Assist will warn the driver
with a warning message, an audible
warning depending on the collision
risk levels. Braking assist will be
applied depending on the collision
risk.
- Warning Only: Forward collision-
Avoidance Assist will warn the driver
with a warning message and an audible warning depending on the collision risk levels. Braking will not be
assisted. The driver must apply the
brake pedal if necessary.
- Off: Forward collision-Avoidance
Assist will turn off. The warning light
( ) will appear on the cluster.
The driver can monitor Forward collision-Avoidance Assist ON/OFF status
from the Settings menu. If the warning
light ( ) remains ON when Forward
collision-Avoidance Assist is ON, have
the vehicle inspected by an authorized
Kia dealer.
Warning Timing
WARNING
When the vehicle is restarted, Forward
collision-Avoidance Assist will always
turn on. However, if Off is selected, the
driver should always be aware of the
surroundings and drive safely.
A: Driver Assistance
1 Warning Timing
2 Standard
3 Late
With the vehicle on, select Settings →
Driver assistance → Warning timing
from the User Settings menu or select
Settings →Vehicle →Driver assistance
→ Warning timingfrom the infotainment system to change the initial warning activation time for Forward collision-
Avoidance Assist.
- Standard: Use in a normal driving
environment. If the function operates
too sensitively, set to the warning timing to Late.
- Late: The warning timing will be slow.
CAUTION
If Warning Only is selected, braking is
not assisted.
NOTICE
Forward collision-Avoidance Assist will
turn off when ESC is turned off by pressing and holding the ESC OFF button. The
warning light ( ) will appear on the
cluster.

--- Page 299 ---
Driver assistance system
Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Front Camera Only)
Warning Methods
Type A
driver assistance system. Please
check and change it in each function.
- If the vehicle is restarted, Warning
Methods will maintain the last setting.
- The setting menu may not exist based
on vehicle specification.
- The Warning Volume and Haptic
Warning cannot be turned off at the
same time. When one of the warning
is turned off the other is activated.
Type B
Forward Collision-Avoidance
Assist operation
A: Driver Assistance
1 Warning Methods
The Warning Methods can be set with
the vehicle on. Select User Settings →
Driver Assistance → Warning Methods
from the settings menu in the instrument cluster or Setup → Vehicle →
Driver Assistance → Warning Methods
from the settings menu in the infotainment system to change the following
settings:
- Warning Volume: Adjusts the volume
of the warning sound.
- Haptic Warning: Activate the steering wheel vibration warning. (if
equipped)
- Driving Safety Priority: Lowers al
other audio volumes when the Driving
Safety system sounds a warning.
The basic function for Forward collision-
Avoidance Assist is warned and controlled by the following level.
- collision Warning
- Emergency Braking
- Stopping vehicle and ending brake
control
Collision Warning
INFORMATION
- If you change the Warning Methods, it
can be applied to each function of the
A: Collision Warning
The warning message and an audible
warning will sound and the steering
wheel will vibrate (if equipped) to warn
the driver of a collision.
collision Warning will be activated at the
following speed of your vehicle, depending on the object.
- For Vehicle: 3~112 mph (5~180 km/h)
- For Pedestrian or cyclist: 3~50 mph
(5~80 km/h)

--- Page 300 ---
Driver assistance system Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Front Camera Only)
Emergency Braking
WARNING
A: Emergency Braking
The warning message and an audible
warning will sound and the steering
wheel will vibrate (if equipped) to warn
the driver of a collision. The brake assist
will be activated and it helps avoiding
collision of a vehicle, pedestrian and
cyclist.
Emergency Braking will be activated at
the following speed of your vehicle,
depending on the object.
- Your driving speed: 3~37 mph (5~60
km/h)
- For Pedestrian or cyclist: 3~37 mph
(5~60 km/h)
Stopping vehicle and ending
brake control
A: Drive carefully
When the vehicle is stopped due to
emergency braking, the warning message will appear on the cluster.
For your safety, the driver should
depress the brake pedal immediately
and check the surroundings.
- Brake control will end after the vehicle
is stopped by emergency braking for
approximately 2 seconds.
- For your safety, change the Settings
after parking the vehicle at a safe
location.
- With Active Assist or Warning Only
selected, when ESC is turned off by
pressing and holding the ESC OFF
button, Forward collision-Avoidance
Assist will turn off automatically. In
this case, Forward collision-Avoidance Assist cannot be set from the
Settings menu and the ( ) warning
light will appear on the cluster which
is normal. If ESC is turned on by
pressing the ESC OFF button again,
Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
will maintain the last setting.
Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
does not operate in all situations or
cannot avoid all collisions.
- The driver should hold the responsibility to control the vehicle. Do not
solely depend on Forward collision-
Avoidance Assist. Rather, maintain a
safe braking distance, and if necessary, depress the brake pedal to
reduce driving speed or to stop the
vehicle.
- Never deliberately operate Forward
collision-Avoidance Assist on people,
objects, etc. It may cause serious
injury or death.
- Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
may not operate if the driver
depresses the brake pedal to avoid
collision.
- Depending on the road and driving
conditions, Forward collision-Avoidance Assist may warn the driver late
or may not warn the driver.
- During Forward collision-Avoidance
Assist operation, the vehicle may stop
suddenly injuring passengers and

--- Page 301 ---
Driver assistance system
Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Front Camera Only)
shifting loose objects. Always have the
seat belt on and keep loose objects
secured.
- If any other function's warning message is displayed or audible warning
is generated, Forward collision-Avoidance Assist warning message may not
be displayed and audible warning
may not be generated.
- You may not hear the warning sound
of Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
if the surroundings are noisy.
- Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
may turn off or may not operate properly or may operate unnecessarily
depending on the road conditions and
the surroundings.
- Even if there is a problem with Forward collision-Avoidance Assist, the
vehicle's basic braking performance
will operate normally.
- During emergency braking, braking
control by Forward collision-Avoidance Assist will automatically cancel
when the driver excessively depresses
the accelerator pedal or sharply steers
the vehicle.
- The images or colors may be displayed differently depending on the
specifications of the instrument cluster or theme.
Forward Collision-Avoidance
Assist malfunction and limitations
Forward Collision-Avoidance
Assist malfunction
A: Check Forward Safety system
When Forward collision-Avoidance
Assist is not working properly, the warning message will appear, and the ( )
and ( ) warning lights will appear on
the cluster.
Forward Collision-Avoidance
Assist disabled
CAUTION
Depending on the condition of the vehicle, pedestrian and cyclist in front and
the surroundings, the speed range to
operate Forward collision-Avoidance
Assist may reduce. Forward collision-
Avoidance Assist may only warn the
driver, or it may not operate.
NOTICE
- When a collision is imminent, the Forward collision-Avoidance Assist may
assist the driver with brakes if the
driver fails to brake enough.
A: Forward Safety system disabled.
Camera obscured
When the front windshield where the
front view camera is located is covered
with foreign material, such as snow or
rain, it can reduce the detecting performance and temporarily limit or disable
Forward collision-Avoidance Assist.
If this occurs the warning message, and
the ( ) and ( ) warning lights will

--- Page 302 ---
Driver assistance system Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Front Camera Only)
appear on the cluster. Forward collision-
Avoidance Assist will operate normally
when snow, rain or foreign material is
removed. Always keep it clean.
If Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
does not operate normally after obstruction (snow, rain, or foreign material) is
removed, have the vehicle inspected by
an authorized Kia dealer.
WARNING
- Even though the warning message or
warning light does not appear on the
cluster, Forward collision-Avoidance
Assist may not properly operate.
- Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
may not properly operate in an area
(e.g. open terrain), where any substance are not detected after turning
ON the vehicle.
- The field of view of the front view
camera is obstructed by sun glare
- Street light or light from an oncoming
vehicle is reflected on the wet road
surface, such as a puddle on the road
- An object is placed on the dashboard
- Your vehicle is being towed
- The surroundings is very bright
- The surroundings are very dark, such
as in a tunnel, etc.
- The brightness changes suddenly, for
example when entering or exiting a
tunnel
- The brightness outside is low, and the
headlamps are not on or are not
bright
- Only part of the vehicle, pedestrian or
cyclist is detected
- The vehicle in front is a bus, heavy
Limitations of Forward Collision-
Avoidance Assist
Forward collision-Avoidance Assist may
not operate normally, or it may operate
unexpectedly under the following circumstances:
- The detecting sensor or the surroundings are contaminated or damaged
- The temperature around the front
view camera is high or low due to surrounding environment
- The camera lens is contaminated due
to tinted, filmed or coated windshield,
damaged glass, or sticky foreign
material (sticker, bug, etc.) on the
glass
- Moisture is not removed or frozen on
the windshield
- Washer fluid is continuously sprayed,
or the wiper is on
- Driving in heavy rain or snow, or thick
fog
truck, truck with a unusually shaped
luggage, trailer, etc.
- The vehicle in front has no tail lights,
tail lights are located unusually, etc.
- The brightness outside is low, and the
tail lamps are not on or are not bright
- The rear of the front vehicle is small or
the vehicle does not look normal, such
as when the vehicle is tilted, overturned, or the side of the vehicle is visible, etc.
- The front vehicle's ground clearance
is low or high
- A vehicle, pedestrian or cyclist suddenly cuts in front
- The vehicle in front is detected late
- The vehicle in front is suddenly
blocked by a obstacle
- The vehicle in front suddenly changes
lane or suddenly reduces speed
- The vehicle in front is bent out of
shape

--- Page 303 ---
Driver assistance system
Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Front Camera Only)
- The vehicle in front is covered with
- The pedestrian or cyclist is wearing
snow
clothing that easily blends into the
- You are departing or returning to the
background, making it difficult to
lane
detect
- Unstable driving
- The pedestrian or cyclist is difficult to
- You are on a roundabout and the
distinguish from the similar shaped
vehicle in front is not detected
structure in the surroundings
- You are continuously driving in a cir-
- You are driving by a pedestrian,
cle
cyclist, traffic signs, structures, etc.
near the intersection
- The vehicle in front has an unusual
shape
- When driving in the following places
- The vehicle in front is driving uphill or
- Driving through steam, smoke or
shadow
downhill
- The pedestrian or cyclist is not fuly
- Driving through a tunnel or iron
detected, for example, if the pedesbridge
trian is leaning over or is not fuly
- Driving in large areas where there
walking upright
are few vehicles or structures (i.e.
desert, meadow, suburb, etc.)
- The pedestrian or cyclist is wearing
clothing or equipment that makes it
- Driving in a parking lot
difficult to detect as a pedestrian or
- Driving near areas containing metal
cyclist
substances, such as a construction
zone, railroad, etc.
The illustration below shows the image the front view camera will detect as a
- Driving on an incline road, curved
vehicle, pedestrian and cyclist.
road, etc.
- Driving through a roadside with
trees or streetlights
- Driving through a narrow road
where trees or grass are overgrown
- There is interference by electromagnetic waves, such as driving in
an area with strong radio waves or
electrical noise
- The adverse road conditions cause
excessive vehicle vibrations while
driving
- Your vehicle height is low or high due
to heavy loads, abnormal tire pressure, etc.
- The pedestrian or cyclist in front is
moving very quickly
- The pedestrian or cyclist in front is
short or is posing a low posture
- The pedestrian or cyclist in front has
impaired mobility
- The pedestrian or cyclist in front is
moving intersected with the driving
direction
- There is a group of pedestrians,
cyclists or a large crowd in front

--- Page 304 ---
Driver assistance system Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Front Camera Only)
WARNING
- Driving on a sloped road
- Driving on a curved road
Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
may not detect other vehicle, pedestrian or cyclist in front of you on
curved roads adversely affecting the
performance of the sensors. This may
result in no warning or braking assist
when necessary.
When driving on a curved road, you
must maintain a safe braking distance, and if necessary, steer the vehicle and depress the brake pedal to
reduce your driving speed in order to
maintain a safe distance.
Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
may not detect other vehicle, pedestrian or cyclist in front of you while
driving uphill or downhill, adversely
affecting the performance of the sensors.
This may result in unnecessary warning or braking assist or no warning or
braking assist when necessary.
Also, vehicle speed may rapidly
decrease when a vehicle, pedestrian
or cyclist ahead is suddenly detected.
Always have your eyes on the road
while driving uphill or downhill and if
necessary, steer your vehicle and
depress the brake pedal to reduce
your driving speed in order to maintain a safe distance.
- Changing lanes
Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
may detect a vehicle, pedestrian or
cyclist in the next lane or outside the
lane when driving on a curved road.
If this occurs, Forward collision-Avoidance Assist may unnecessarily warn
the driver and control the brake.
Always check the traffic conditions
around the vehicle.
[A]: Your vehicle, [B]: Lane changing
vehicle

--- Page 305 ---
Driver assistance system
Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Front Camera Only)
When a vehicle (B) moves into your
lane from an adjacent lane, it cannot
be detected by the sensor until it is in
the sensor's detection range. Forward
collision-Avoidance Assist may not
immediately detect the vehicle when
the vehicle changes lanes abruptly. In
this case, you must maintain a safe
braking distance, and if necessary,
steer your vehicle and depress the
brake pedal to reduce your driving
speed in order to maintain a safe distance.
- Detecting a vehicle
If the vehicle in front of you has cargo
that extends rearward from the cab,
or when the vehicle in front of you has
higher ground clearance, additional
special attention is required. Forward
collision-Avoidance Assist may not be
able to detect the cargo extending
from the vehicle. In these instances,
you must maintain a safe braking distance from the rearmost object, and if
necessary, steer your vehicle and
depress the brake pedal to reduce
your driving speed in order to maintain distance.
[A]: Your vehicle, [B]: Lane changing
vehicle,
[C]: Same lane vehicle
When a vehicle (B) in front of you
merges out of the lane, Forward collision-Avoidance Assist may not immediately detect the vehicle (C) that is
now in front of you. In this case, you
must maintain a safe braking distance, and if necessary, steer your
vehicle and depress the brake pedal
to reduce your driving speed in order
to maintain a safe distance.
WARNING
- When you are towing a trailer or
another vehicle, we recommend that
Forward collision-Avoidance Assist is
turned off due to safety reasons.
- Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
may operate if objects that are similar
in shape or characteristics to vehicle,
pedestrian or cyclist are detected.
- Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
does not operate on bicycles, motorcycles, or smaler wheeled objects,
such as luggage bags, shopping carts,
or strolers.

--- Page 306 ---
Driver assistance system Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Sensor Fusion)
- Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
may not operate normally if interfered
by strong electromagnetic waves.
- Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
may not operate for 15 seconds after
the vehicle is started, or the front view
camera is initialized.
Forward Collision-Avoidance
Assist (FCA) (Sensor Fusion)
(if equipped)
Basic function
This device complies with Part 15
of the FCC rules.
Operation is subject to the following
three conditions:
1. This device may not cause harmful
interference, and
2.This device must accept any interference received, including interference
that may cause undesired operation.
3.Changes or modifications not
expressly approved by the party
responsible for compliance could void
the user's authority to operate the
device.
Forward collision-Avoidance Assist is
designed to help detect and monitor the
vehicle ahead or help detect a pedestrian or cyclist in the roadway and warn
the driver that a collision is imminent
with a warning message and an audible
warning, apply emergency braking.
Junction Turning function
Radio frequency radiation exposure information:
This equipment complies with FCC radiation exposure limits set forth for an
uncontroled environment. This equipment should be installed and operated
with minimum distance of 8 inches (20
cm) between the radiator (antenna) and
your body. This transmitter must not be
colocated or operating in conjunction
with any other antenna or transmitter.
Junction Turning function will help avoid
a collision with an oncoming vehicle in
an adjacent lane when turning left at a
crossroad with the turn signal on by
applying emergency braking.

--- Page 307 ---
Driver assistance system
Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Sensor Fusion)
Detecting sensor
Front view camera
Front radar
Use only a soft cloth to wash the vehicle. Do not spray pressurized water
directly on the sensor or sensor cover.
- If unnecessary force has been applied
to the radar or around the radar, Forward collision-Avoidance Assist may
not properly operate even though a
warning message does not appear on
the cluster. Have the vehicle
inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.
- Use only genuine parts to repair or
replace a damaged front radar cover.
Do not apply paint to the front radar
cover.
Forward Collision-Avoidance
Assist settings
Forward Safety
Refer to the picture above for the
detailed location of the detecting sensors.
CAUTION
- Never disassemble the detecting sensor or sensor assembly, or apply any
impact on it.
- If the detecting sensors have been
replaced or repaired, have the vehicle
inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.
- Never install any accessories or stickers on the front windshield, or tint the
front windshield.
- Pay extreme caution to keep the front
view camera dry.
- Never place any reflective objects (i.e.
white paper, mirror) over the dashboard.
- Do not apply license plate frame or
objects, such as a bumper sticker, film
or a bumper guard, near the front
radar cover.
- Always keep the front radar and cover
clean and free of dirt and debris.
A: Driver Assistance
1 Forward Safety
2 Active Assist
3 Warning Only
4 Off
With the vehicle on, select Settings →
Driver assistance → Forward safety
from the User Settings menu or select
Settings → Vehicle → Driver assistance → Forward safety from the info-

--- Page 308 ---
Driver assistance system Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Sensor Fusion)
tainment system to set whether or not to
use each function.
- Active Assist: Forward collision-
Avoidance Assist will warn the driver
with a warning message, and an audible warning depending on the collision risk levels. Braking assist will be
applied depending on the collision
risk.
- Warning Only: Forward collision-
Avoidance Assist will warn the driver
with a warning message, and an audible warning depending on the collision risk levels. Braking will not be
assisted. The driver must apply the
brake pedal or steer the vehicle if necessary.
- Off: Forward collision-Avoidance
Assist will turn off. The warning light
( ) will appear on the cluster.
The driver can monitor Forward collision-Avoidance Assist ON/OFF status
from the Settings menu. If the warning
light ( ) remains ON when Forward
collision-Avoidance Assist is ON, have
the vehicle inspected by an authorized
Kia dealer.
NOTICE
Forward collision-Avoidance Assist will
turn off when ESC is turned off by pressing and holding the ESC OFF button. The
warning light ( ) will appear on the
cluster.
Warning Timing
WARNING
When the vehicle is restarted, Forward
collision-Avoidance Assist will always
turn on. However, if Off is selected, the
driver should always be aware of the
surroundings and drive safely.
CAUTION
- If Warning Only is selected, braking is
not assisted.
- The settings for Forward Safety
include 'Basic function' and 'Junction
Turning'.
A: Driver Assistance
1 Warning Timing
2 Standard
3 Late
With the vehicle on, select Settings →
Driver Assistance → Warning timing
from the User Settings menu or select
Settings → Vehicle → Driver Assistance→ Warning Timing from the infotainment system to change the initial
warning activation time for Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist.
- Standard: Use in a normal driving
environment. If the function operates
too sensitively, set to the warning timing to Late.
- Late: The warning timing will be slow.

--- Page 309 ---
Driver assistance system
Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Sensor Fusion)
Warning Methods
Type A
driver assistance system. Please
check and change it in each function.
- If the vehicle is restarted, Warning
Methods will maintain the last setting.
- The setting menu may not exist based
on vehicle specification.
- The Warning Volume and Haptic
Warning cannot be turned off at the
same time. When one of the warning
is turned off the other is activated.
Type B
Forward Collision-Avoidance
Assist operation
Basic function
The basic function for Forward collision-
Avoidance Assist is warned and controlled by the following level.
- collision Warning
- Emergency Braking
- Stopping vehicle and ending brake
control
Collision Warning
A: Driver Assistance
1 Warning Methods
The Warning Methods can be set with
the vehicle on. Select User Settings →
Driver Assistance → Warning Methods
from the settings menu in the instrument cluster or Setup → Vehicle →
Driver Assistance → Warning Methods
from the settings menu in the infotainment system to change the following
settings:
- Warning Volume: Adjusts the volume
of the warning sound.
- Haptic Warning: Activate the steering wheel vibration warning. (if
equipped)
- Driving Safety Priority: Lowers al
other audio volumes when the Driving
Safety system sounds a warning.
INFORMATION
- If you change the Warning Methods, it
can be applied to each function of the
A: Collision Warning
The warning message and an audible
warning will sound and the steering
wheel will vibrate (if equipped) to warn
the driver of a collision.
collision Warning will be activated at the
following speed of your vehicle, depending on the object.
- Your driving speed: 3~112 mph (5~180
km/h)
- Pedestrian or cyclist: 3~53 mph (5~85
km/h)

--- Page 310 ---
Driver assistance system Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Sensor Fusion)
Emergency Braking
Junction Turning function
Warning and control
The basic function for Junction Turning
function is warned and controlled by the
following level.
- collision Warning
- Emergency Braking
- Stopping vehicle and ending brake
control
Collision Warning
A: Emergency Braking
The warning message and an audible
warning will sound and the steering
wheel will vibrate (if equipped) to warn
the driver of a collision. The brake assist
will be activated and it helps avoiding
collision of a vehicle, pedestrian and
cyclist.
Emergency Braking will be activated in
following speed of your vehicle, depending on the object.
- Your driving speed: 3~53 mph (5~85
km/h)
- For Pedestrian or cyclist: 3~40 mph
(5~65 km/h)
Stopping vehicle and ending
brake control
A: Collision Warning
The warning message and an audible
warning will sound and the steering
wheel will vibrate (if equipped) to warn
the driver of a collision.
collision Warning will be activated in following conditions.
- Your driving speed: 4~19 mph (7~30
km/h)
- Oncoming vehicle speed: 15 ~ 44 mph
(25 ~ 70 km/h)
Emergency Braking
A: Drive carefully
When the vehicle is stopped due to
emergency braking, the warning message will appear on the cluster.
For your safety, the driver should
depress the brake pedal immediately
and check the surroundings.
- Brake control will end after the vehicle
is stopped by emergency braking for
approximately 2 seconds.
A: Emergency Braking
The warning message and an audible
warning will sound and the steering
wheel will vibrate (if equipped) to warn
the driver of a collision. The brake assist

--- Page 311 ---
Driver assistance system
Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Sensor Fusion)
will be activated and it helps avoiding
collision of a vehicle.
Emergency Braking will be activated in
following conditions.
- Your driving speed: 4~19 mph (7~30
km/h)
- Oncoming vehicle speed: 15~44 mph
(25~70 km/h)
Stopping vehicle and ending
brake control
A: Drive carefully
When the vehicle is stopped due to
emergency braking, the warning message will appear on the cluster.
For your safety, the driver should
depress the brake pedal immediately
and check the surroundings.
- Brake control will end after the vehicle
is stopped by emergency braking for
approximately 2 seconds.
CAUTION
If the driver's seat is on the left side,
Junction Turning function will operate
only when the driver turns left. If the
driver's seat position is on right side, the
function will operate only when you turn
right.
pressing and holding the ESC OFF
button, Forward collision-Avoidance
Assist will turn off automatically. In
this case, Forward collision-Avoidance Assist cannot be set from the
Settings menu and the ( ) warning
light will appear on the cluster which
is normal. If ESC is turned on by
pressing the ESC OFF button again,
Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
will maintain the last setting.
- Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
does not operate in all situations or
cannot avoid all collisions.
- The driver should hold the responsibility to control the vehicle. Do not
solely depend on Forward collision-
Avoidance Assist. Rather, maintain a
safe braking distance, and if necessary, depress the brake pedal to
reduce driving speed or to stop the
vehicle.
- Never deliberately operate Forward
collision-Avoidance Assist on people,
objects, etc. It may cause serious
injury or death.
- Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
may not operate if the driver
depresses the brake pedal to avoid
collision.
- Depending on the road and driving
conditions, Forward collision-Avoidance Assist may warn the driver late
or may not warn the driver.
- During Forward collision-Avoidance
Assist operation, the vehicle may stop
WARNING
- For your safety, change the Settings
after parking the vehicle at a safe
location.
- With Active Assist or Warning Only
selected, when ESC is turned off by
suddenly injuring passengers and
shifting loose objects. Always have the
seat belt on and keep loose objects
secured.
- If any other function's warning message is displayed or audible warning
is generated, Forward collision-Avoid-

--- Page 312 ---
Driver assistance system Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Sensor Fusion)
ance Assist warning message may not
be displayed and audible warning
may not be generated.
- You may not hear the warning sound
of Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
if the surroundings are noisy.
- Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
may turn off or may not operate properly or may operate unnecessarily
depending on the road conditions and
the surroundings.
- Even if there is a problem with Forward collision-Avoidance Assist, the
vehicle's basic braking performance
will operate normally.
- During emergency braking, braking
control by Forward collision-Avoidance Assist will automatically cancel
when the driver excessively depresses
the accelerator pedal or sharply steers
the vehicle.
NOTICE
- When a collision is imminent, the Forward collision-Avoidance Assist may
assist the driver with brakes if the
driver fails to brake enough.
- The images or colors may be displayed differently depending on the
specifications of the instrument cluster or theme.
Forward Collision-Avoidance
Assist malfunction and limitations
Forward Collision-Avoidance
Assist malfunction
CAUTION
- Depending on the condition of the
vehicle, pedestrian and cyclist in front
and the surroundings, the speed
range to operate Forward collision-
Avoidance Assist may reduce. Forward collision-Avoidance Assist may
only warn the driver, or it may not
operate.
- Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
will operate under certain conditions
by judging the risk level based on the
condition of the oncoming vehicle,
driving direction, speed and surroundings.
A: Check Forward Safety system
When Forward collision-Avoidance
Assist is not working properly, the warning message will appear, and the ( )
and ( ) warning lights will appear on
the cluster.

--- Page 313 ---
Driver assistance system
Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Sensor Fusion)
Forward Collision-Avoidance
Assist disabled
WARNING
A: Forward Safety system disabled.
Radar blocked
- Even though the warning message or
warning light does not appear on the
cluster, Forward collision-Avoidance
Assist may not properly operate.
- Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
may not properly operate in an area
(e.g. open terrain), where any substance are not detected after turning
ON the vehicle.
A: Forward Safety system disabled.
Camera obscured
When the front windshield where the
front view camera is located, front radar
cover, or sensor is located is covered
with foreign material, such as snow or
rain, it can reduce the detecting performance and temporarily limit or disable
Forward collision-Avoidance Assist.
If this occurs the warning message, and
the ( ) and ( ) warning lights will
appear on the cluster.
Forward collision-Avoidance Assist will
operate normally when snow, rain or foreign material is removed. Always keep it
clean.
If Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
does not operate normally after obstruction (snow, rain, or foreign material) is
removed, have the vehicle inspected by
an authorized Kia dealer.
Limitations of Forward Collision-
Avoidance Assist
Forward collision-Avoidance Assist may
not operate normally, or it may operate
unexpectedly under the following circumstances:
- The detecting sensor or the surroundings are contaminated or damaged
- The temperature around the front
view camera is high or low due to surrounding environment
- The camera lens is contaminated due
to tinted, filmed or coated windshield,
damaged glass, or sticky foreign
material (sticker, bug, etc.) on the
glass
- Moisture is not removed or frozen on
the windshield
- Washer fluid is continuously sprayed,
or the wiper is on
- Driving in heavy rain or snow, or thick
fog
- The field of view of the front view
camera is obstructed by sun glare
- Street light or light from an oncoming
vehicle is reflected on the wet road
surface, such as a puddle on the road
- An object is placed on the dashboard
- Your vehicle is being towed
- The surroundings are very bright

--- Page 314 ---
Driver assistance system Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Sensor Fusion)
- The surroundings are very dark, such
- The cyclist in front is on a bicycle
as in a tunnel, etc.
made of material that does not reflect
- The brightness changes suddenly, for
on the front radar
example when entering or exiting a
- The vehicle in front is detected late
tunnel
- The vehicle in front is suddenly
- The brightness outside is low, and the
blocked by a obstacle
headlamps are not on or are not
- The vehicle in front suddenly changes
bright
lane or suddenly reduces speed
- Only part of the vehicle, pedestrian or
- The vehicle in front is bent out of
cyclist is detected
shape
- The vehicle in front is a bus, heavy
- The vehicle in front is covered with
truck, truck with a unusually shaped
snow
luggage, trailer, etc.
- You are departing or returning to the
- The vehicle in front has no tail lights,
lane
tail lights are located unusually, etc.
- Unstable driving
- The brightness outside is low, and the
- You are on a roundabout and the
tail lamps are not on or are not bright
vehicle in front is not detected
- The rear of the front vehicle is small or
- You are continuously driving in a cirthe vehicle does not look normal, such
cle
as when the vehicle is tilted, over-
- The vehicle in front has an unusual
turned, or the side of the vehicle is visshape
ible, etc.
- The vehicle in front is driving uphill or
- The front vehicle's ground clearance
downhill
is low or high
- The pedestrian or cyclist is not fuly
- A vehicle, pedestrian or cyclist suddetected, for example, if the pedesdenly cuts in front
trian is leaning over or is not fuly
- The bumper around the front radar is
walking upright
impacted, damaged or the front radar
- The pedestrian or cyclist is wearing
is out of position
clothing or equipment that makes it
- The temperature around the front
difficult to detect as a pedestrian or
radar is high or low
cyclist
- Driving through a tunnel or iron
bridge
The illustration below shows the image the front view camera and front radar
- Driving in large areas where there are
will detect as a vehicle, pedestrian and
few vehicles or structures (i.e. desert,
cyclist.
meadow, suburb, etc.)
- Driving near areas containing metal
substances, such as a construction
zone, railroad, etc.
- A material is near that reflects very
well on the front radar, such as a
guardrail, nearby vehicle, etc.

--- Page 315 ---
Driver assistance system
Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Sensor Fusion)
- The pedestrian or cyclist in front is
moving very quickly
- The pedestrian or cyclist in front is
short or is posing a low posture
- The pedestrian or cyclist in front has
impaired mobility
- The pedestrian or cyclist in front is
moving intersected with the driving
direction
- There is a group of pedestrians,
cyclists or a large crowd in front
- The pedestrian or cyclist is wearing
clothing that easily blends into the
background, making it difficult to
detect
- The pedestrian or cyclist is difficult to
distinguish from the similar shaped
structure in the surroundings
- You are driving by a pedestrian,
cyclist, traffic signs, structures, etc.
near the intersection
- When driving in the following places
- Driving through steam, smoke or
shadow
- Driving through a tunnel or iron
bridge
- Driving in large areas where there
are few vehicles or structures (i.e.
desert, meadow, suburb, etc.)
- Driving in a parking lot
- Driving through tol gate, construction areas, partially paved roads,
bumpy roads, speed bumps, etc.
- Driving near areas containing metal
substances, such as a construction
zone, railroad, etc.
- Driving on an incline road, curved
road, etc.
- Driving through a roadside with
trees or streetlights
- Driving through a narrow road
where trees or grass are overgrown
- There is interference by electromagnetic waves, such as driving in
an area with strong radio waves or
electrical noise
- The adverse road conditions cause
excessive vehicle vibrations while
driving
- Your vehicle height is low or high due
to heavy loads, abnormal tire pressure, etc.
WARNING
- Driving on a curved road
Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
may not detect other vehicle, pedestrian or cyclist in front of you on
curved roads adversely affecting the
performance of the sensors. This may
result in no warning or braking assist
when necessary.
When driving on a curved road, you
must maintain a safe braking distance, and if necessary, steer the vehicle and depress the brake pedal to
reduce your driving speed in order to
maintain a safe distance.
Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
may detect a vehicle, pedestrian or

--- Page 316 ---
Driver assistance system Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Sensor Fusion)
cyclist in the next lane or outside the
lane when driving on a curved road.
If this occurs, Forward collision-Avoidance Assist may unnecessarily warn
the driver and control the brake.
Always check the traffic conditions
around the vehicle.
- Driving on a sloped road
Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
may not detect other vehicle, pedestrian or cyclist in front of you while
driving uphill or downhill, adversely
affecting the performance of the sensors.
This may result in unnecessary warning or braking assist or no warning or
braking assist when necessary.
Also, vehicle speed may rapidly
decrease when a vehicle, pedestrian
or cyclist ahead is suddenly detected.
Always have your eyes on the road
while driving uphill or downhill and if
necessary, steer your vehicle and
depress the brake pedal to reduce
your driving speed in order to maintain a safe distance.
- Changing lanes
[A]: Your vehicle, [B]: Lane changing
vehicle
When a vehicle (B) moves into your
lane from an adjacent lane, it cannot
be detected by the sensor until it is in
the sensor's detection range. Forward
collision-Avoidance Assist may not
immediately detect the vehicle when
the vehicle changes lanes abruptly. In
this case, you must maintain a safe
braking distance, and if necessary,
steer your vehicle and depress the
brake pedal to reduce your driving
speed in order to maintain a safe distance.
[A]: Your vehicle, [B]: Lane changing
vehicle,

--- Page 317 ---
Driver assistance system
Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Sensor Fusion)
[C]: Same lane vehicle
When a vehicle (B) in front of you
merges out of the lane, Forward collision-Avoidance Assist may not immediately detect the vehicle (C) that is
now in front of you. In this case, you
must maintain a safe braking distance, and if necessary, steer your
vehicle and depress the brake pedal
to reduce your driving speed in order
to maintain a safe distance.
- Detecting a vehicle
WARNING
- When you are towing a trailer or
another vehicle, we recommend that
Forward collision-Avoidance Assist is
turned off due to safety reasons.
- Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
may operate if objects that are similar
in shape or characteristics to vehicle,
pedestrian or cyclist are detected.
- Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
does not operate on bicycles, motorcycles, or smaler wheeled objects,
such as luggage bags, shopping carts,
or strolers.
- Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
may not operate normally if interfered
by strong electromagnetic waves.
- Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
may not operate for 15 seconds after
the vehicle is started, or the front view
camera is initialized.
If the vehicle in front of you has cargo
that extends rearward from the cab,
or when the vehicle in front of you has
higher ground clearance, additional
special attention is required. Forward
collision-Avoidance Assist may not be
able to detect the cargo extending
from the vehicle. In these instances,
you must maintain a safe braking distance from the rearmost object, and if
necessary, steer your vehicle and
depress the brake pedal to reduce
your driving speed in order to maintain distance.
This device complies with Part 15
of the FCC rules.
Operation is subject to the following
three conditions:
1. This device may not cause harmful
interference, and
2.This device must accept any interference received, including interference
that may cause undesired operation.
3.Changes or modifications not
expressly approved by the party
responsible for compliance could void
the user's authority to operate the
device.

--- Page 318 ---
Driver assistance system Lane Keeping Assist (LKA)
Radio frequency radiation exposure information:
This equipment complies with FCC radiation exposure limits set forth for an
uncontroled environment. This equipment should be installed and operated
with minimum distance of 8 inches (20
cm) between the radiator (antenna) and
your body. This transmitter must not be
colocated or operating in conjunction
with any other antenna or transmitter.
Lane Keeping Assist (LKA)
Lane Keeping Assist is designed to help
detect lane markings (or road edges)
while driving over a certain speed. Lane
Keeping Assist will warn the driver if the
vehicle leaves the lane without using the
turn signal, or will automatically assist
the driver's steering to help prevent the
vehicle from departing the lane.
Detecting sensor
Front view camera
The front view camera is used as a
detecting sensor to detect lane markings
(or road edges).
Refer to the picture above for the
detailed location of the detecting sensor.
CAUTION
For more details on the precautions of
the front view camera, refer to "Forward
collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Front
Camera Only) (if equipped)" on page 6-
4.

--- Page 319 ---
Driver assistance system
Lane Keeping Assist settings
Lane Safety
A: Driver Assistance
1 Lane Safety
2 Assist
3 Warning Only
4 Off
With the vehicle on, select or deselect
Settings → Driver Assistance → Lane
Safety from the User Settings menu or
select or deselect Settings → Vehicle→
Driver Assistance → Lane Safety from
the infotainment system to set whether
or not to use each function.
- Assist: Lane Keeping Assist will automatically assist the driver's steering
when lane departure is detected to
help prevent the vehicle from moving
out of its lane.
- Warning Only: Lane Keeping Assist
will warn the driver with an audible
warning when lane departure is
detected. The driver must steer the
vehicle.
- Off: Lane Keeping Assist will turn off.
The indicator ( ) light will turn off
on the cluster.
Lane Keeping Assist (LKA)
WARNING
- If Warning Only is selected, steering
is not assisted.
- Lane Keeping Assist does not control
the steering wheel when the vehicle is
driven in the middle of the lane.
- The driver should always be aware of
the surroundings and steer the vehicle if Off is selected.
Turning Lane Keeping Assist On/
Off
With the vehicle on, press and hold the
Lane Driving Assist button located on
the steering wheel to turn on Lane Keeping Assist. The grey ( ) indicator light
will appear on the cluster.
Press and hold the button again to turn
off the function.
If the vehicle is restarted, Lane Keeping
Assist will maintain the last setting.
NOTICE
When Lane Keeping Assist is turned off
with the Lane Driving Assist button, the
Lane Safety setting also changes to Off.

--- Page 320 ---
Driver assistance system Warning Methods
Type A
Type B
A: Driver Assistance
1 Warning Methods
The Warning Methods can be set with
the vehicle on. Select User Settings →
Driver Assistance → Warning Methods
from the settings menu in the instrument cluster or Setup → Vehicle →
Driver Assistance → Warning Methods
from the settings menu in the infotainment system to change the following
settings:
- Warning Volume: Adjusts the volume
of the warning sound.
- Haptic Warning: Activate the steering wheel vibration warning. (if
equipped)
- Lane Safety Audible Warning Off:
Turns off the Lane Safety Audible
Warning, even when both warning
volume and haptic warning are on. (if
equipped)
- Driving Safety Priority: Lowers al
other audio volumes when the Driving
Safety system sounds a warning.
Lane Keeping Assist (LKA)
INFORMATION
- If you change the Warning Methods, it
can be applied to each function of the
driver assistance system. Please
check and change it in each function.
- If the vehicle is restarted, Warning
Methods will maintain the last setting.
- The setting menu may not exist based
on vehicle specification.
- The Warning Volume and Haptic
Warning cannot be turned off at the
same time. When one of the warning
is turned off the other is activated.
- The Lane Safety Audible Warning
Off can be set when both the Warning Volume and the Haptic Warning
are on.
Lane Keeping Assist operation
Warning and control
Left
Right
Lane Keeping Assist will warn and control the vehicle with Lane Departure
Warning and Lane Keeping Assist.

--- Page 321 ---
Driver assistance system
Lane Departure Warning
- To warn the driver that the vehicle is
departing from the projected lane in
front, the green ( ) indicator light
will blink on the cluster, the lane line
will blink on the cluster depending on
which direction the vehicle is veering,
and an audible warning will sound.
- Your driving speed: Approximately
40~120 mph (60~200 km/h).
Lane Keeping Assist
- To warn the driver that the vehicle is
departing from the projected lane in
front, the green ( ) indicator light
will blink on the cluster, and the steering wheel will make adjustments to
keep vehicle inside the lane.
- Your driving speed: Approximately
40~120 mph (60~200 km/h).
Hands-off warning
A: Keep hands on steering wheel
If the driver takes their hands off the
steering wheel for several seconds, the
warning message will appear on the
cluster, and an audible warning will
sound in stages.
WARNING
- The steering wheel may not be
assisted if the steering wheel is held
very tight or the steering wheel is
steered over a certain degree.
Lane Keeping Assist (LKA)
- Lane Keeping Assist does not operate
at all times. It is the responsibility of
the driver to safely steer the vehicle
and to maintain the vehicle in its lane.
- The hands-off warning message may
appear late depending on road conditions. Always have your hands on the
steering wheel while driving.
- If the steering wheel is held very
lightly, the hands-off warning message may appear because Lane Keeping Assist may not detect that the
driver has their hands on the steering
wheel.
- If you attach objects to the steering
wheel, the hands-off warning may not
work properly.
NOTICE
- For more details on setting the instrument cluster, refer to the separately
supplied infotainment system manual.
- When lane markings (or road edges)
are detected, the lane lines on the
cluster will change from gray to white
and the green ( ) indicator light
will appear.
Lane undetected
Lane detected

--- Page 322 ---
Driver assistance system - Even though the steering is assisted
by Lane Keeping Assist, the driver
may control the steering wheel.
- The steering wheel may feel heavier
or lighter when the steering wheel is
assisted by Lane Keeping Assist than
when it is not.
NOTICE
The images or colors may be displayed
differently depending on the specifications of the instrument cluster or theme.
Lane Keeping Assist malfunction
and limitations
Lane Keeping Assist malfunction
A: Check Lane Safety system
When Lane Keeping Assist is not working properly, the warning message will
appear and the yellow ( ) indicator
light will appear on the cluster. If this
occurs, have the function inspected by
an authorized Kia dealer.
Limitations of Lane Keeping
Assist
Lane Keeping Assist may not operate
normally or may operate unexpectedly
under the following circumstances:
- The lane is contaminated or difficult
to distinguish because,
- The lane markings (or road edge) is
covered with rain, snow, dirt, sand,
oil, puddle etc.
Lane Keeping Assist (LKA)
- The color of the lane marking (or
road edge) is not distinguishable
from the road
- There are markings (or road edges)
on the road near the lane or the
markings (or road edges) on the
road looks similar to the lane markings (or road edges)
- The lane marking (or road edge) is
indistinct or damaged
- The shadow is on the lane marking
(or road edge) by a median strip,
trees, guardrail, noise barriers, etc.
- The number of lanes increases or
decreases, or the lane markings are
crossing
- There are more than two lane markings (or road edges) on the road
- The lane markings (or road edges) are
complicated or a structure substitutes
for the lines, such as a construction
area
- There are road markings, such as zigzag lanes, crosswalk markings and
road signs
- The lane suddenly disappears, such
as at the intersection
- The lane (or road width) is very wide
or narrow
- There is a road edge without a lane
- There is a boundary structure in the
roadway, such as a tolgate, sidewalk,
curb, etc.
- The distance to the front vehicle is
extremely short or the vehicle in front
is covering the lane marking (or road
edge)

--- Page 323 ---
Driver assistance system
NOTICE
For more details on the limitations of the
front view camera, refer to "Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Front
Camera Only) (if equipped)" on page 6-
4.
WARNING
Take the following precautions when
using Lane Keeping Assist:
- The driver should hold the responsibility to safely drive and control the
vehicle. Do not solely rely on the function and drive dangerously.
- The operation of Lane Keeping Assist
can be canceled or not work properly
depending on road conditions and
surroundings. Always be cautious
while driving.
- Refer to "Limitations of Lane Keeping
Assist" if the lane is not detected properly.
- When you are towing a trailer or
another vehicle, we recommend that
Lane Keeping Assist is turned off due
to safety reasons.
- If the vehicle is driven at high speed,
the steering wheel will not be controlled. The driver must always follow
the speed limit when using Lane
Keeping Assist.
- If any other function's warning message is displayed or audible warning
is generated, Lane Keeping Assist
warning message may not be displayed and audible warning may not
be generated.
- You may not hear the warning sound
of Lane Keeping Assist if the surroundings are noisy.
Lane Keeping Assist (LKA)
- If you attach objects to the steering
wheel, steering may not be assisted
properly.
- Lane Keeping Assist may not operate
for 15 seconds after the vehicle is
started, or the Front view camera is
initialized.
- Lane Keeping Assist will not operate
when:
- The turn signal or hazard waring
flasher is turned on
- The vehicle is not driven in the center of the lane when the function is
turned on or right after changing a
lane
- ESC (Electronic Stability Control) or
VSM (Vehicle Stability Management) is activated
- The vehicle is driven on a sharp
curved road
- Vehicle speed is below 35 mph (55
km/h) or above 130 mph (210 km/
h)
- The vehicle makes sharp lane
changes
- The vehicle brakes suddenly

--- Page 324 ---
Driver assistance system Blind-Spot Collision-Avoidance Assist (BCA) (if
equipped)
Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist is
designed to help detect and monitor
approaching vehicles in the driver's blind
spot area and warn the driver of a possible collision with a warning message and
audible warning.
In addition, if there is a risk of collision
when changing lanes or driving forward
out of a parking space, Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist will help avoid collision by applying the brake.
Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist
helps detect and inform the driver that a
vehicle is in the blind spot.
CAUTION
The detecting range may vary depending on the speed of your vehicle. However, even if there is a vehicle in the
blind spot area, the function may not
warn you when you pass by at high
speeds.
Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist
helps detect and inform the driver that a
vehicle is approaching at high speed
from the blind spot area.
Blind-Spot Collision-Avoidance Assist (BCA)
CAUTION
Warning Timing may vary depending on
the speed of the vehicle approaching at
high speed.
When changing lanes by detecting the
lane ahead, if Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist judges that there is a collision risk with an approaching vehicle in
the blind spot, it will help avoid collision
by applying the brake.
When you are driving forward out of a
parking space, if Blind-Spot collision-
Avoidance Assist judges that there is a
collision risk with an approaching vehicle
in the blind spot, it will help avoid collision by applying the brake.
Detecting sensor
Front view camera

--- Page 325 ---
Driver assistance system
Rear corner radar
Refer to the picture above for the
detailed location of the detecting sensors.
CAUTION
Take the following precautions to maintain optimal performance of the detecting sensor:
- Never disassemble the rear corner
radar or radar assembly, or apply any
impact on it.
- If there is impact on the rear corner
radar or near the radar, even though
the warning message does not appear
on the cluster, Blind-Spot Safety system may not operate properly. Have
the function inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.
- If the rear corner radars have been
replaced or repaired, have the vehicle
inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.
- Use only genuine parts to repair the
rear bumper where the rear corner
radar is located.
- Do not apply license plate frame or
objects, such as a bumper sticker, film
or a bumper guard near the rear corner radar.
- Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist
may not work properly if the bumper
has been replaced, or the surroundings of the rear corner radar has been
damaged or paint has been applied.
- If a trailer, carrier or other equipments
is installed, it may adversely affect the
Blind-Spot Collision-Avoidance Assist (BCA)
performance of the rear corner radar
or the function may not operate.
For more details on the precautions of
the front view camera, refer to "Forward
collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Front
Camera Only) (if equipped)" on page 6-
4.
Blind-Spot Collision-Avoidance
Assist settings
Blind-Spot Safety
A: Driver Assistance
1 Blind-Spot Safety
2 Active Assist
3 Warning Only
4 Off
With the engine on, select or deselect
Settings→ Driver Assistance→ Blind-
Spot Safety from the User Settings
menu or select or deselect Settings →
Vehicle→ Driver Assistance →Blind-
Spot Safety from the infotainment system to set whether or not to use each
function.
- Active Assist: Blind-Spot collision-
Avoidance Assist will warn the driver
with a warning message, an audible
warning and braking assist will be
applied depending on the collision risk
levels.
- Warning Only: Blind-Spot collision-
Avoidance Assist will warn the driver
with a warning message, an audible
warning depending on the collision
risk levels. Braking will not be assisted.

--- Page 326 ---
Driver assistance system - Off: Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance
Assist will turn off.
A: Blind-Spot Safety System is Off
When the vehicle is restarted with Blind-
Spot collision-Avoidance Assist off, the
Blind-Spot Safety System is Off message will appear on the cluster.
If you change the setting from Off to
Active Assist or Warning Only, the
warning light on the outside rear view
mirror will blink for three seconds.
In addition, if the vehicle is turned on,
when Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance
Assist is set to Active Assist or Warning
Only, the warning light on the outside
rear view mirror will blink for three seconds.
WARNING
- If Warning Only is selected, braking is
not assisted.
- If Off is selected, the driver should
always be aware of the surroundings
and drive safely.
NOTICE
If the vehicle is restarted, Blind-Spot Collision-Avoidance Assist will maintain the
last setting.
Blind-Spot Collision-Avoidance Assist (BCA)
Warning Timing
A: Driver Assistance
1 Warning Timing
2 Standard
3 Late
With the vehicle on, select Settings→
Driver Assistance → Warning Timing
from the User Settings menu or select
Settings→ Vehicle → Driver Assistance → Warning Timing from the infotainment system to change the initial
warning activation time for Blind-Spot
collision Warning.
To select the Warning time Standard or
Late.
- Standard: Use under normal driving
conditions. If it feels too sensitive, set
the warning timing to Late.
- Late: The warning timing will be late
Warning Methods
Type A

--- Page 327 ---
Driver assistance system
Type B
A: Driver Assistance
1 Warning Methods
The Warning Methods can be set with
the vehicle on. Select User Settings →
Driver Assistance → Warning Methods
from the settings menu in the instrument cluster or Setup → Vehicle →
Driver Assistance → Warning Methods
from the settings menu in the infotainment system to change the following
settings:
- Warning Volume: Adjusts the volume
of the warning sound.
- Haptic Warning: Activate the steering wheel vibration warning. (if
equipped)
- Driving Safety Priority: Lowers al
other audio volumes when the Driving
Safety system sounds a warning.
INFORMATION
- If you change the Warning Methods, it
can be applied to each function of the
driver assistance system. Please
check and change it in each function.
- If the vehicle is restarted, Warning
Methods will maintain the last setting.
- The setting menu may not exist based
on vehicle specification.
- The Warning Volume and Haptic
Warning cannot be turned off at the
same time. When one of the warning
is turned off the other is activated.
Blind-Spot Collision-Avoidance Assist (BCA)
Blind-Spot Collision-Avoidance
Assist operation
Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist
will warn and control as following operation.
- Vehicle detection
- collision Warning
- collision-Avoidance Assist
Vehicle detection
Warning light will appear in the outside
rear view mirror when the vehicle on
both lanes is detected from the rear.
Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist
will operate as following circumstances.
- Your driving speed: Above 12 mph (20
km/h)
- The speed of the vehicle in the blind
spot area: Above 7 mph (10 km/h)
Collision Warning
collision Warning will operate when the
turn signal to change the lane in the
direction of the vehicle in the blind spot
area.
- To warn the driver of a collision, the
warning light on the side view mirror
will blink. At the same time, an audible
warning will sound and the steering
wheel will vibrate (if equipped).
- When the turn signal is turned off or
you move away from the lane, the collision warning will be canceled, and

--- Page 328 ---
Driver assistance system the function will return to vehicle
detection state.
collision warning will operate as following circumstances.
- Your driving speed: Above 25 mph
(40 km/h)
- The speed of the vehicle in the blind
spot area: Above 7 mph (10 km/h)
NOTICE
If Warning Only is selected from the Settings menu, the collision warning will
operate when your vehicle approaches
the lane the blind spot vehicle is
detected.
WARNING
- The detecting range of the rear corner
radar is determined by a standard
road width, therefore, on a narrow
road, the function may detect other
vehicles in the two lanes away and
warn you. In contrast, on a wide road,
the function may not be able to detect
a vehicle driving in the next lane and
may not warn you.
- When the hazard warning flasher is
on, the collision warning by the turn
signal will not operate.
NOTICE
- If the driver's seat is on the left side,
the collision warning may occur when
you turn left. If the driver's seat is on
the right side, the collision warning
may occur when you turn right. Maintain a proper distance with the vehicles in the lane.
- Images or colors may be displayed
differently depends on the instrument
cluster specifications or theme.
Blind-Spot Collision-Avoidance Assist (BCA)
Collision-Avoidance Assist (while
driving)
A: Emergency Braking
- To warn the driver of a collision, the
warning light on the side view mirror
will blink, and a warning message will
appear on the cluster. At the same
time, an audible warning will sound. It
assists in braking control to help prevent collision with the vehicle in the
blind spot area.
- collision-Avoidance Assist will be
operated under the following circumstances.
- Your vehicle speed: 40~120 mph
(60~200 km/h).
- Both lane markings of the driving
lane are detected.
WARNING
- collision-Avoidance Assist will be canceled under the following circumstances:
- Your vehicle enters the next lane by
a certain distance
- Your vehicle is away from the collision risk
- The steering wheel is sharply
steered
- The brake pedal is depressed
- Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
is operating
- After Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance
Assist operation or changing lane, you
must drive to the center of the lane.

--- Page 329 ---
Driver assistance system
The function will not operate if the
vehicle is not driven in the center of
the lane.
Collision-Avoidance Assist (while
departing)
A: Emergency Braking
- To warn the driver of a collision, the
warning light on the outside rear view
mirror will blink, and a warning message will appear on the cluster. At the
same time, an audible warning will
sound.
- Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist
will operate when your vehicle speed
is below 2 mph (3km/h), and the
speed of the vehicle in the blind spot
area is above 3 mph (5 km/h).
- Emergency Braking will be assisted to
help prevent collision with the vehicle
in the blind spot area.
A: Drive carefully
When the vehicle is stopped due to
emergency braking, the warning message will appear on the cluster. For your
safety, the driver should depress the
brake pedal immediately and check the
surroundings.
Blind-Spot Collision-Avoidance Assist (BCA)
- Brake control will end after the vehicle
is stopped by emergency braking for
approximately 2 seconds.
WARNING
Take the following precautions when
using Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance
Assist:
- For your safety, change the Blind-
Spot Safety system Settings after
parking the vehicle at a safe location.
- If any other function's warning message is displayed or audible warning
is generated, Blind-Spot collision-
Avoidance Assist's warning message
may not be displayed and audible
warning may not be generated.
- You may not hear the warning sound
of Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance
Assist if the surroundings are noisy.
- Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist
may not operate if the driver applies
the brake pedal to avoid collision.
- When Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance
Assist is operating, braking control by
the function will automatically cancel
when the driver excessively depresses
the accelerator pedal or control the
steering wheel.
- During Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance
Assist operation, the vehicle may stop
suddenly injuring passengers and
shifting loose objects. Always have the
seat belt on and keep loose objects
secured.
- Even if there is a problem with Blind-
Spot collision-Avoidance Assist, the
vehicle's basic braking performance
will operate normally.
- Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist
does not operate in all situations or
cannot avoid all collisions.

--- Page 330 ---
Driver assistance system - Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist
may warn the driver late or may not
warn the driver depending on the
road and driving conditions.
- Driver should maintain control of the
vehicle at all times. Do not depend on
Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist.
Maintain a safe braking distance, and
if necessary, depress the brake pedal
to reduce driving speed or to stop the
vehicle.
WARNING
- The brake control may not operate
properly depending on the status of
ESC (Electronic Stability Control).
There will only be a warning when:
- The ESC (Electronic Stability Control) warning light is on
- ESC (Electronic Stability Control) is
engaged in a different function
NOTICE
The images or colors may be displayed
differently depending on the specifications of the instrument cluster or theme.
Blind-Spot Collision-Avoidance
Assist malfunction and limitations
Blind-Spot Collision-Avoidance
Assist malfunction
A: Check Blind-Spot Safety system
When Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance
Assist is not working properly, the warn-
Blind-Spot Collision-Avoidance Assist (BCA)
ing message will appear on the cluster
for several seconds, and the master
warning light ( ) will appear. Have
Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist be
inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.
A: Check side view mirror warning
light
When the outside rear view mirror warning light is not working properly, the
warning message will appear on the
cluster for several seconds, and the
master warning light ( ) will appear.
Have Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance
Assist be inspected by an authorized Kia
dealer.
Blind-Spot Collision-Avoidance
Assist disabled
A: Blind-Spot Safety system disabled.
Radar blocked
When the rear bumper around the rear
corner radar or sensor is covered with
foreign material, such as snow or rain, or
installing a trailer or carrier, it can reduce
the detecting performance and temporarily limit or disable Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist.

--- Page 331 ---
Driver assistance system
If this occurs, a warning message will
appear on the cluster. However it is not a
malfunction.
Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist
will operate normally when such foreign
material or trailer, other equipments is
removed, and then the vehicle is
restarted. Always keep it clean.
If Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist
does not operate normally after vehicle
rear luggage, other equipment or foreign material is removed, have Blind-
Spot collision-Avoidance Assist be
inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.
WARNING
- Even though the warning message
does not appear on the cluster, Blind-
Spot collision-Avoidance Assist may
not properly operate.
- Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist
may not properly operate in an area
(e.g. open terrain) where any substances are not detected right after
the vehicle is turned on, or when the
detecting sensor is blocked with foreign material right after the vehicle is
turned on.
CAUTION
Turn off Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance
Assist to install a trailer, carrier, etc., or
remove the trailer, carrier, etc. to use
Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist.
Blind-Spot Collision-Avoidance Assist (BCA)
Limitations of Blind-Spot Collision-Avoidance Assist
Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist
may not operate normally as following
circumstances:
- There is inclement weather, such as
heavy snow, heavy rain, etc.
- The rear corner radar is covered with
snow, rain, dirt, etc.
- The temperature around the rear corner radar is high or low
- The rear corner radar is covered by
vehicle or pilar, wals etc.
- Driving on a highway (or motorway)
ramp and tolgate.
- The road pavement (or the peripheral
ground) abnormally contains metallic
components (i.e. possibly due to subway construction).
- There is a fixed object near the vehicle, such as sound barriers, guardrails,
double guardrails, central dividers,
entry barriers, street lamps, signs,
tunnels, wals, etc. (including double
structures)
- Driving through a narrow road where
trees or grass are overgrown
- Driving in large areas where there are
few vehicles or structures (i.e. desert,
meadow, suburb, etc.)
- Driving on a wet road surface, such as
a puddle on the road
- The other vehicle drives very close
behind your vehicle, or the other vehicle passes by your vehicle in close
proximity
- The speed of the other vehicle is very
fast that it passes by your vehicle in a
short time
- Your vehicle passes by the other vehicle
- Your vehicle changes lane

--- Page 332 ---
Driver assistance system - Your vehicle has started at the same
time as the vehicle next to you and
has accelerated
- The vehicle in the next lane moves
two lanes away from you, or when the
vehicle two lanes away moves to the
next lane from you
- A trailer or carrier is installed around
the rear corner radar
- The bumper around the rear corner
radar is covered with objects, such as
a bumper sticker, bike rack, etc.
- The bumper around the rear corner
radar is impacted, damaged or the
radar is out of position
- Your vehicle height is low or high due
to heavy loads, abnormal tire pressure, etc.
Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist
may not operate normally, or it may
operate unexpectedly when the following objects are detected:
- A motorcycle or bicycle is detected
- A vehicle such as a flat trailer is
detected
- A big vehicle such as a bus or truck is
detected
- A moving obstacle such as a pedestrian, animal, shopping cart or a baby
stroler is detected
- A vehicle with low height such as a
sports car is detected
Braking control may not work as following circumstances:
- The vehicle severely vibrates while
driving over a bumpy road, uneven
road or concrete patch
- Driving on a slippery surface due to
snow, water puddle, ice, etc.
- The tire pressure is low or a tire is
damaged
- The brake is reworked
Blind-Spot Collision-Avoidance Assist (BCA)
- The vehicle makes abrupt lane
changes
NOTICE
For more details on the limitations of the
front view camera, refer to "Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Front
Camera Only) (if equipped)" on page 6-4
and "Lane Keeping Assist (LKA)" on page
6-25.
WARNING
- Driving on a curved road
Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist
may not operate properly when driving on a curved road. Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist may not detect
the vehicle in the next lane.
Always pay attention to road and driving conditions while driving.
Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist
may not operate properly when driving on a curved road. Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist may detect a
vehicle in the same lane.
Always pay attention to road and driving conditions while driving.

--- Page 333 ---
Driver assistance system
- Driving where the road is merging/
dividing
Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist
may not operate properly when driving where the road merges or divides.
Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist
may not detect the vehicle in the next
lane.
Always pay attention to road and driving conditions while driving on the
road merges or divides.
- Driving on a sloped road
Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist
may not operate properly when driving on a sloped road. Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist may not detect
the vehicle in the next lane or may
incorrectly detect the ground or structure.
Always pay attention to road and driving conditions while driving.
Blind-Spot Collision-Avoidance Assist (BCA)
- Driving where the heights of the lanes
are different
Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist
may not operate properly when driving where the heights of the lanes are
different. Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist may not detect the vehicle
on a road with different lane heights.
Always pay attention to road and driving conditions while driving.
WARNING
- When you are towing a trailer or
another vehicle, make sure that you
turn off Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist.
- Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist
may not operate normally if interfered
by strong electromagnetic waves.
- Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist
may not operate for approximately 15
seconds after the vehicle is started, or
the front view camera or rear corner
radars are initialized.
This device complies with Part 15
of the FCC rules.
Operation is subject to the following two
conditions:
1. This device may not cause harmful
interference, and
2.This device must accept any interference received, including interference
that may cause undesired operation.

--- Page 334 ---
Driver assistance system Safe Exit Warning (SEW) (if
equipped)
After the vehicle stops, when an
approaching vehicle from the rear area
is detected as soon as a passenger
opens a door, Safe Exit Warning will
warn the driver with a warning message
and an audible warning to help prevent
a collision.
CAUTION
Warning Timing may vary depending on
the speed of the approaching vehicle.
Detecting sensor
Rear corner radar
Refer to the picture above for the
detailed location of the detecting sensors.
CAUTION
For more details on the precautions of
the rear corner radars, refer to "Blind-
Spot collision-Avoidance Assist (BCA) (if
equipped)" on page 6-31.
Safe Exit Warning (SEW)
Safe Exit Warning settings
Safe Exit Warning
A: Driver Assistance
1 Blind-Spot Safety
2 Safe Exit Warning
With the vehicle on, select Settings →
Driver Assistance → Blind-Spot Safety
→ Safe Exit Warning from the User Settings menu or select Settings→ Vehicle
→ Driver Assistance → Blind-Spot
Safety→ Safe Exit Warningfrom the
infotainment system to turn on Safe Exit
Warning and deselect to turn off the
function.
WARNING
The driver should always be aware of
unexpected and sudden situations from
occurring. If Safe Exit Warning is deselected, Safe Exit Warning cannot warn
you.
NOTICE
If the vehicle is restarted, Safe Exit Warning will maintain the last setting.

--- Page 335 ---
Driver assistance system
Safe Exit Warning (SEW)
Warning Methods
- The setting menu may not exist based
on vehicle specification.
Type A
Safe Exit Warning operation
Warning
Safe Exit Warning warns the following
actions.
Type B
Collision warning when exiting
vehicle
ONQ5A053035 ONQ5041079
A: Driver Assistance
1 Warning Methods
The Warning Methods can be set with
the vehicle on. Select User Settings →
Driver Assistance → Warning Methods
from the settings menu in the instrument cluster or Setup → Vehicle →
Driver Assistance → Warning Methods
from the settings menu in the infotainment system to change the following
settings:
- Warning Volume: Adjusts the volume
of the warning sound.
- Driving Safety Priority: Lowers al
other audio volumes when the Driving
Safety system sounds a warning.
INFORMATION
A: Watch for traffic
- The warning light on the side view
mirror will blink and the warning message will appear on the cluster, and an
audible warning will sound.
- Safe Exit Warning will warn under the
following circumstances:
- Your driving speed: below 2 mph (3
km/h)
- The speed of the approaching vehicle from the rear: above 4 mph (6
km/h)
- If you change the Warning Methods, it
can be applied to each function of the
driver assistance system. Please
check and change it in each function.
- If the vehicle is restarted, Warning
Methods will maintain the last setting.
WARNING
Take the following precautions when
using Safe Exit Warning:

--- Page 336 ---
Driver assistance system - For your safety, change the Settings
after parking the vehicle at a safe
location.
- If any other function's warning message is displayed or audible warning
is generated, Safe Exit Warning warning message may not be displayed
and audible warning may not be generated.
- You may not hear the warning sound
of Safe Exit Warning if the surroundings are noisy.
- Safe Exit Warning does not operate in
all situations or cannot prevent all collisions.
- Safe Exit Warning may warn the
driver late or may not warn the driver
depending on driving conditions.
Always check vehicle surroundings.
- The driver and passengers are
responsible for accidents that occurs
while exiting the vehicle. Always check
the surroundings before you exit the
vehicle.
- Safe Exit Warning does not operate if
there is a problem with Blind-Spot
collision Warning or Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist:
- The warning message of Bind Spot
collision Warning or Blind Spot Collision-Avoidance Assist is appeared.
- Blind-Spot collision Warning or
Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance
Assist sensor or the sensor surroundings are polluted or covered
- Blind-Spot collision Warning or
Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance
Assist fails to warn passengers or
falsely warn passengers
Safe Exit Warning (SEW)
NOTICE
- After the vehicle is turned off, Safe
Exit Warning operates for 3 minutes,
but turns off immediately if the doors
are locked.
- Images or colors may be displayed
differently depends on the instrument
cluster specifications or theme.
Safe Exit Warning malfunction
and limitations
Safe Exit Warning malfunction
A: Check Blind-Spot Safety system
When Safe Exit Warning is not working
properly, the warning message will
appear on the cluster, and the master
warning light ( ) will appear on the cluster. Have Safe Exit Warning inspected by
an authorized Kia dealer.
A: Check side view mirror warning
light
When the side view mirror warning light
is not working properly, the warning
message will appear on the cluster for
several seconds, and the master warning light ( ) will appear on the cluster.
Have Safe Exit Warning inspected by an
authorized Kia dealer.

--- Page 337 ---
Driver assistance system
Safe Exit Warning disabled
A: Blind-Spot Safety system disabled.
Radar blocked
When the rear bumper around the rear
corner radar or sensor is covered with
foreign material, such as snow or rain, or
installing a trailer or carrier, it can reduce
the detecting performance and temporarily limit or disable Safe Exit Warning.
If this occurs, the Blind-Spot Safety
system disabled. Radar blocked warning message will appear on the cluster.
Safe Exit Warning will operate normally
when such foreign material or trailer, etc.
is removed, and then the vehicle is
restarted.
If Safe Exit Warning does not operate
normally after it is removed, have Safe
Exit Warning inspected by an authorized
Kia dealer.
WARNING
- Even though the warning message
does not appear on the cluster, Safe
Exit Warning may not properly operate.
- Safe Exit Warning may not properly
operate in an area (e.g., open terrain),
where any substance are not detected
right after the vehicle is turned on, or
when the detecting sensor is blocked
with foreign material right after the
vehicle is turned on.
Safe Exit Warning (SEW)
CAUTION
Turn off Safe Exit Warning to install a
trailer, carrier, etc., or remove the trailer,
carrier, etc. to use Safe Exit Warning.
Limitations of Safe Exit Warning
Safe Exit Warning may not operate normally, or Safe Exit Warning may operate
unexpectedly under the following warning.
- Getting out of the vehicle where trees
or grass are overgrown
- Getting out of the vehicle where the
road is wet
- The approaching vehicle is very fast
or very slow
NOTICE
For more details on the precautions of
the rear corner radars, refer to "Blind-
Spot collision-Avoidance Assist (BCA) (if
equipped)" on page 6-31.
WARNING
- Safe Exit Warning may not operate
normally if interfered by strong electromagnetic waves.
- Safe Exit Warning may not operate for
3 seconds after the vehicle is
restarted, or the rear corner radars
are initialized.

--- Page 338 ---
Driver assistance system Manual Speed Limit Assist
(MSLA)
1. Speed Limit indicator
2.Set speed
You can set the speed limit when you do
not want to drive over a specific speed.
If you drive over the preset speed limit,
the warning function operates (set
speed limit will blink, and chime will
sound) until the vehicle speed returns
within the speed limit.
Manual Speed Limit Assist operation
Setting speed limit
1. Press and hold Driving Assist ( ) button at the desired speed.
The speed limit indicator ( )
light will appear on the cluster.
Manual Speed Limit Assist (MSLA)
2.Push the + switch up or - switch down,
and release it at the desired speed.
Push the + switch up or - switch down
and hold it. The speed will increase or
decrease to the nearest multiple of
five (multiple of ten in km/h) at first,
and then increase or decrease by 5
mph (10 km/h).
3.The set speed limit (1) will be displayed on the cluster. If you would like
to drive over the preset speed limit,
depress the accelerator pedal beyond
the pressure point to activate the kickdown mechanism.
The set speed limit will blink and
chime will sound until you return the
vehicle speed within the speed limit.
NOTICE
When the accelerator pedal is not
depressed beyond the pressure point,
vehicle speed will maintain within the
speed limit.

--- Page 339 ---
Driver assistance system
Temporarily pausing Manual
Speed Limit Assist
Push the ( ) switch to temporarily
pause the set speed limit. The set speed
limit will turn off but the Speed Limit
indicator ( ) will stay on.
Resuming Manual Speed Limit
Assist
To resume Manual Speed Limit Assist
after the function was paused, operate
the +, -, ( ) switch.
If you push the + switch up or - switch
down, vehicle speed will be set to the
current speed on the cluster.
If you push the ( ) switch, vehicle speed
will resume to the preset speed.
Turning off Manual Speed Limit
Assist
Press the Driving Assist ( ) button to
turn Manual Speed Limit Assist off. The
Manual Speed Limit Assist (MSLA)
Speed Limit indicator ( ) will go
off.
Always press the Driving Assist ( ) button to turn Manual Speed Limit Assist off
when not in use.
WARNING
Take the following precautions when
using Manual Speed Limit Assist:
- Always set the vehicle speed to the
speed limit in your country.
- Keep Manual Speed Limit Assist off
when the function is not in use, to
avoid inadvertently setting a speed.
Check that the Speed Limit indicator
( ) is off.
- Manual Speed Limit Assist does not
substitute for proper and safe driving.
It is the responsibility of the driver to
always drive safely and should always
be aware of unexpected and sudden
situations from occurring. Pay attention to the road conditions at all times.
NOTICE
The images or colors may be displayed
differently depending on the specifications of the instrument cluster or theme.

--- Page 340 ---
Driver assistance system Intelligent Speed Limit Assist
(ISLA) (if equipped)
intelligent Speed Limit Assist uses information from the detected road sign and
navigation system to inform the driver of
the speed limit. Also, the function helps
the driver to maintain within the speed
limit of the road.
CAUTION
- intelligent Speed Limit Assist may not
operate properly if the function is
used in other countries.
- Update navigation system regularly
for intelligent Speed Limit Assist to
operate normally.
Detecting sensor
Front view camera
Refer to the picture above for the
detailed location of the detecting sensor.
CAUTION
For more precautions related to the
camera sensor, refer to "Forward collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Front Camera Only) (if equipped)" on page 6-4.
Intelligent Speed Limit Assist (ISLA)
Intelligent Speed Limit Assist settings
Speed Limit
A: Driver Assistance
1 Speed Limit
2 Speed Limit Assist
3 Speed Limit Warning
4 Off
With the vehicle on, select or deselect
Driver Assistance → Speed Limit from
the Settings menu to set whether or not
to use each function.
- If Speed Limit Assist is selected, Intelligent Speed Limit Assist will inform
the driver of speed limit. In addition,
intelligent Speed Limit Assist will
inform the driver to change set speed
of Manual Speed Limit Assist or Smart
Cruise Control (If equipped) to help
the driver stay within the speed limit.
- If Speed Limit Warning is selected,
intelligent Speed Limit Assist will
inform the driver of speed limit. In
addition, intelligent Speed Limit Assist
will warn the driver when the vehicle
is driven faster than the speed limit.
Manual Speed Limit Assist or Smart
Cruise Control (If equipped) set speed

--- Page 341 ---
Driver assistance system
will not be automatically adjusted. The
driver should adjust the speed manually.
- If Off is selected, intelligent Speed
Limit Assist will turn off.
Speed Limit Offset
A: Driver Assistance
1 Speed Limit
2 Speed Limit Offset (mph)
With the vehicle on, when Driver Assistance → Speed Limit → Speed Limit
Offset is selected, from the Settings
menu the Speed Limit Offset can be
changed. Speed Limit Warning and
Speed Limit Assist will operate by applying the Speed Limit Offset setting to the
detected speed limit.
WARNING
- For your safety, change the Settings
after parking the vehicle at a safe
location.
- Speed Limit Warning function warns
the driver when driving speed
exceeds the speed at which the set
Offset is added to speed limit. If you
want Speed Limit Warning to warn
you immediately when the driving
Intelligent Speed Limit Assist (ISLA)
speed exceeds the speed limit, set the
offset to 0.
- Depending on the instrument cluster
specifications or theme, images or
colors may be displayed differently.
Warning Methods
Type A
Type B
A: Driver Assistance
1 Warning Methods
The Warning Methods can be set with
the vehicle on. Select User Settings →
Driver Assistance → Warning Methods
from the settings menu in the instrument cluster or Setup → Vehicle →
Driver Assistance → Warning Methods
from the settings menu in the infotainment system to change the following
settings:
- Warning Volume: Adjusts the volume
of the warning sound.
INFORMATION
- If you change the Warning Methods, it
can be applied to each function of the

--- Page 342 ---
Driver assistance system driver assistance system. Please
check and change it in each function.
- If the vehicle is restarted, Warning
Methods will maintain the last setting.
- The setting menu may not exist based
on vehicle specification.
Intelligent Speed Limit Assist
operation
intelligent Speed Limit Assist will warn
and control the vehicle by 'Displaying
speed limit', 'Warning overspeed' and
'Changing set speed'.
NOTICE
intelligent Speed Limit Assist warning
and control are described based on the
Offset set to 0. For details on Offset setting, refer to "intelligent Speed Limit
Assist settings" on page 6-47.
Displaying speed limit
Speed limit information is displayed on
the instrument cluster.
NOTICE
- If speed limit information of the road
cannot be recognized, '---' sign will be
displayed. Please refer to "Limitations
of intelligent Speed Limit Assist" if the
road signs are difficult to recognize.
- intelligent Speed Limit Assist provides
additional road sign information in
addition to speed limit. The additional
Intelligent Speed Limit Assist (ISLA)
road sign information provided may
vary according to your country.
Warning overspeed
When driving at a speed higher than the
displayed speed limit, the red speed limit
indicator will blink.
Changing set speed
If the speed limit of the road changes
during the operation of Manual Speed
Limit Assist or Smart Cruise Control (If
equipped), an arrow in the direction of
up or down is displayed to inform the
driver that the set speed needs to be
changed. At this time, the driver can
change the set speed according to the
speed limit by using the + or - switch on
the steering wheel.

--- Page 343 ---
Driver assistance system
WARNING
- If the Offset is set over 0, the set
speed will change to a higher speed
than the speed limit of the road. If you
want to drive below the speed limit,
set the Offset under 0 or use the -
switch on the steering wheel to lower
the set speed.
- Even after changing the set speed
according to the speed limit of the
road, the vehicle can still be driven
over the speed limit. If necessary,
depress the brake pedal to reduce
your driving speed.
- If the speed limit of the road is under
20 mph (30 km/h), the set speed
change function will not work.
- intelligent Speed Limit Assist operates using the speed unit in the instrument cluster set by the driver. If the
speed unit is set to a unit other than
the speed unit used in your country,
intelligent Speed Limit Assist may not
operate properly.
NOTICE
- For more details on function operation of Manual Speed Limit Assist,
refer to "Manual Speed Limit Assist
(MSLA)" on page 6-45.
- For more details on operation of
Smart Cruise Control, refer to "Smart
Cruise Control (SCC) (if equipped)" on
page 6-60.
NOTICE
The images or colors may be displayed
differently depending on the specifications of the instrument cluster or theme.
Intelligent Speed Limit Assist (ISLA)
Intelligent Speed Limit Assist
malfunction and limitations
Intelligent Speed Limit Assist
malfunction
A: Check Speed Limit Assist system
When intelligent Speed Limit Assist is not
working properly, the warning message
will appear on the cluster for several seconds, and the master ( ) warning light
will appear on the cluster. If this occurs,
have Safe Exit Assist inspected by an
authorized Kia dealer.
Intelligent Speed Limit Assist disabled
A: Speed Limit system disabled. Camera obscured
When the front windshield where the
front view camera is located is covered
with foreign material, such as snow or
rain, it can reduce the detecting performance and temporarily limit or disable
intelligent Speed Limit Assist.
If this occurs, the warning message will
appear on the cluster. The function will
operate normally when snow, rain or foreign material is removed.

--- Page 344 ---
Driver assistance system Intelligent Speed Limit Assist (ISLA)
If intelligent Speed Limit Assist does not
operate normally after it is removed,
have Safe Exit Assist inspected by an
authorized Kia dealer.
NOTICE
Even though the warning message or
warning light does not appear on the
cluster, intelligent Speed Limit Assist
may not operate properly.
Limitations of Intelligent Speed
Limit Assist
intelligent Speed Limit Assist may not
operate normally, or the function may
operate unexpectedly under the following circumstances:
- The road sign is contaminated or
indistinguishable
- The road sign is difficult to see due
to bad weather, such as rain, snow,
fog, etc.
- The road sign is not clear or damaged
- The road sign is partially obscured
by surrounding objects or shadow
- A road sign near the road you are
driving is detected
- The road signs do not conform to the
standard
- The text or picture on the road sign
is different from the standard
- The road sign is installed between
the main line and the exit road or
between diverging roads
- A conditional road sign is not
installed with a sign located on the
road to enter or exit
- A sign is attached to another vehicle
- The distance between the vehicle and
the road signs is too far
- The vehicle encounters iluminating
road signs
- intelligent Speed Limit Assist incorrectly recognizes numbers in the
street signals or other signs as the
speed limit
- The minimum speed limit sign on the
road is recognized incorrectly
- A lot of signs are installed together
- The brightness changes suddenly, for
example when entering or exiting a
tunnel or passing under a bridge
- Headlamps are not used or the brightness of the headlamps are weak at
night or in the tunnel
- Road signs are difficult to recognize
due to the reflection of sunlight, street
lights, or oncoming vehicles
- The navigation information or GPS
information contain errors.
- The driver does not follow the guide
of the navigation.
- The driver is driving a new road that is
not in the navigation system yet.
- The field of view of the Front view
camera is obstructed by sun glare
- Driving on a road that is sharply
curved or continuously curved
- Driving through speed bumps, or driving up and down or left to right on
steep inclines
- The vehicle is shaking heavily
- There is an error in the navigation
map information or GPS information
WARNING
- intelligent Speed Limit Assist is a supplemental function that helps the
driver to comply with the speed limit
on the road, and may not display the
correct speed limit or control the driving speed properly.

--- Page 345 ---
Driver assistance system
Driver Attention Warning (DAW)
- It is the responsibility of the driver to
keep the speed limit.
- intelligent Speed Limit Assist may not
operate for 15 seconds after the vehicle is started, or the front view camera
is initialized.
NOTICE
For more details on the limitations of the
front view camera, refer to "Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Front
Camera Only) (if equipped)" on page 6-
4.
Driver Attention Warning
(DAW)
Basic function
Driver Attention Warning will help determine the driver's attention level by analyzing driving pattern, driving time, etc.
while vehicle is being driven. Driver
Attention Warning will recommend a
break when the driver's attention level
fals below a certain level.
Leading vehicle departure alert
function
Leading Vehicle Departure Alert function
will inform the driver when the front
vehicle departs from a stop.
Detecting sensor
Front view camera
The front view camera is used to detect
driving patterns and front vehicle departure while vehicle is being driven.
Refer to the picture above for the
detailed location of the detecting sensor.
CAUTION
Always keep the front view camera in
good condition to maintain optimal performance of Driver Attention Warning.
For more details on the precautions of
the front view camera, refer to "Forward
collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Front

--- Page 346 ---
Driver assistance system Camera Only) (if equipped)" on page 6-
4.
Driver Attention Warning settings
Driver Attention Warning
A: Driver Assistance
1 Driver Attention Warning
2 Inattentive Driving Warning
With the vehicle on, select or deselect
Settings → Driver Assistance → Driver
Attention Warning from the User Settings menu or select or deselect Settings → Vehicle → Driver Assistance→
Driver Attention Warning from the
infotainment system to set whether or
not to use each function.
- Inattentive Driving Warning: Driver
Attention Warning will inform the
driver the driver's attention level and
will recommend taking a break when
the level fals below a certain level.
Driver Attention Warning (DAW)
Leading Vehicle Departure Alert
A: Driver Assistance
1 Driver Attention Warning
2 Leading Vehicle Departure Alert
Leading Vehicle Departure Alert: The
function will inform the driver when the
front vehicle departs from a stop.
Warning Timing
A: Driver Assistance
1 Warning Timing
2 Standard
3 Late
With the vehicle on, select Settings →
Driver Assistance → Warning Timing
from the User Settings menu or select

--- Page 347 ---
Driver assistance system
Settings→ Vehicle → Driver Assistance→ Warning Timing from the infotainment system to change the initial
warning activation time for Driver Attention Warning.
- Standard: Use in a normal driving
environment. If Driver Attention Warning operates too sensitive, set the
warning timing to Late.
- Late: The warning timing will be late
NOTICE
- If you change the Warning Timing, the
warning time of other Driver Assistance systems may change.
- If the vehicle is restarted, Driver Warning Time will maintain the last setting.
Driver Attention Warning operation
Basic function
The basic functions of Driver Attention
Warning include:
- Attention Level
- Consider taking a break
Attention level
Function off
1 Driver Attention Warning
2 System Off
Driver Attention Warning (DAW)
Standby/Disabled
1 Driver Attention Warning
2 Standby
3 Last Break
Attentive driving
1. Attention Level
2.High
3.Last Break
Inattentive driving
1. Attention Level
2.Low
3.Last Break
The driver's attention level is displayed
on the scale of 1 to 5. The lower the level
is, the more inattentive the driver is. The
level decreases when the driver does not
take a break for a certain period of time.
Driver Attention Warning (DAW) operates under the following conditions:
- Your driving speed: Approximately
0~130 mph (0~210 km/h).

--- Page 348 ---
Driver assistance system When the Inattentive Driving Warning
is deselected from the Settings menu,
System Off is displayed.
When vehicle speed is not within the
operating speed, the message Standby
will be displayed.
Taking a break
A: Consider taking a break
The warning message will appear on the
cluster and an audible warning will
sound to suggest that the driver take a
break, when the driver's attention level is
below 1.
Driver Attention Warning will not suggest a break when the total driving time
is shorter than 10 minutes or 10 minutes
has not passed after the last break was
suggested.
WARNING
For your safety, change the Settings
after parking the vehicle at a safe location.
CAUTION
- Driver Attention Warning may suggest
a break depending on the driver's
driving pattern or habits, even if the
driver doesn't feel fatigued.
- Driver Attention Warning is a supplemental function and may not be able
to determine whether the driver is
inattentive.
Driver Attention Warning (DAW)
- The driver who feels fatigued should
take a break at a safe location, even
though there is no break suggestion
by Driver Attention Warning.
NOTICE
- For more details on setting the instrument cluster, refer to "Instrument
cluster" on page 4-61.
- Driver Attention Warning will reset the
last break time to 0:00 in the following situations:
- The vehicle is turned off
- The driver unfastens the seat belt
and opens the driver's door.
- The vehicle is stopped for more
than 10 minutes.
Leading vehicle departure alert
function
A: Leading vehicle is driving away
When the front vehicle departs from a
stop, Leading Vehicle Departure Alert
will inform the driver by displaying the
warning message on the cluster and an
audible warning will sound.
WARNING
- If any other function's warning message is displayed or audible warning
is generated, Leading Vehicle Departure Alert warning message may not
be displayed and audible warning
may not be generated.

--- Page 349 ---
Driver assistance system
- The driver should hold the responsibility to safely drive and control the
vehicle.
CAUTION
- Leading Vehicle Departure Alert is a
supplemental function and may not
alert the driver whenever the front
vehicle departs from a stop.
- Always check the front of the vehicle
and road conditions before departure.
NOTICE
The images or colors may be displayed
differently depending on the specifications of the instrument cluster or theme.
Driver Attention Warning malfunction and limitations
Driver Attention Warning malfunction
A: Check Driver Attention Warning
(DAW) system
When Driver Attention Warning is not
working properly, the warning message
will appear and ( ) warning lights will
appear on the cluster. If this occurs, have
Driver Attention Warning inspected by
an authorized Kia dealer.
Driver Attention Warning (DAW)
Limitations of Driver Attention
Warning
Driver Attention Warning may not work
properly in the following situations:
- The vehicle is driven violently
- The vehicle intentionally crosses over
lanes frequently
- The vehicle is controlled by Driver
Assistance system, such as Lane
Keeping Assist
Leading vehicle departure alert
function
- When the vehicle cuts in
[A]: Your vehicle, [B]: Front vehicle
If a vehicle cuts in front of your vehicle, Leading Departure Alert may not
operate properly.
- When the vehicle ahead sharply
steers
[A]: Your vehicle, [B]: Front vehicle

--- Page 350 ---
Driver assistance system If the vehicle in front makes a sharp
turn, such as to turn left or right or
make a U- turn, etc., Leading Vehicle
Departure Alert may not operate
properly.
- When the vehicle ahead abruptly
departs
If the vehicle in front abruptly departs,
Leading Vehicle Departure Alert may
not operate properly.
- When a pedestrian or bicycle is
between you and the vehicle ahead
If there is a pedestrian(s) or bicycle(s)
in between you and the vehicle in
front, Leading Vehicle Departure Alert
may not operate properly.
- When in a parking lot
If a vehicle parked in front drives
away from you, Leading Vehicle
Departure Alert may warn you that
the parked vehicle is driving away.
Driver Attention Warning (DAW)
- When driving at a tolgate or intersection, etc.
If you pass a tolgate or intersection
with lots of vehicles or you drive
where lanes are merged or divided
frequently, Leading Vehicle Departure
Alert may not operate properly.
NOTICE
For more details on the limitations of the
front view camera, refer to "Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Front
Camera Only) (if equipped)" on page 6-
4.

--- Page 351 ---
Driver assistance system
Cruise Control (CC) (if
equipped)
1 Cruise indicator
2 Set speed
Cruise Control will allow you to drive at
speeds above 20 mph (30 km/h) without
depressing the accelerator pedal.
Cruise Control operation
To set speed
1. Accelerate to the desired speed,
which must be more than 20 mph (30
km/h).
2.Press the Driving Assist ( ) button at
the desired speed. The set speed and
Cruise ( ) indicator will appear
on the cluster.
3.Release the accelerator pedal.
Vehicle speed will maintain the set
speed even when The accelerator
pedal must not be pressed.
NOTICE
On a steep sloped road, the vehicle may
slightly slow down or speed up while
driving uphill or downhill.
Cruise Control (CC)
To increase set speed
- Push the + switch up and release it
immediately. The set speed will
increase by 1 mph (1 km/h) each time
the switch is operated in this manner.
- Push the + switch up and hold it while
monitoring the set speed on the cluster. The set speed will increase to the
nearest multiple of five (multiple of
ten in km/h) at first, and then increase
by 5 mph (10 km/h) each time the
switch is operated in this manner.
Release the switch when the desired
speed is shown and the vehicle will
accelerate to that speed.
To decrease set speed
- Push the - switch down and release it
immediately. The set speed will
decrease by 1 mph (1 km/h) each time
the switch is operated in this manner.
- Push the - switch down and hold it
while monitoring the set speed on the
cluster. The set speed will decrease to
the nearest multiple of five (multiple
of ten in km/h) at first, and then
decrease by 5 mph (10 km/h) each
time the switch is operated in this
manner.

--- Page 352 ---
Driver assistance system Release the switch at the speed you
want to maintain.
To temporarily accelerate
If you want to speed up temporarily
when Cruise Control is on, depress the
accelerator pedal.
To return to the set speed, take your foot
off the accelerator pedal.
If you push the + switch up or - switch
down at increased speed, the cruising
speed will be set to the current
increased speed.
To temporarily pause Cruise Control
Cruise Control will be paused when:
- Depressing the brake pedal.
- Pressing the ( ) button.
- Shifting the gear to N (Neutral).
- Decreasing vehicle speed to less than
approximately 20 mph (30 km/h).
- Increasing vehicle speed to more than
approximately 120 mph (190 km/h)
- Operating the electronic parking
brake system EPB.
- ESC (Electronic Stability Control) is
operating.
The set speed will turn off but the Cruise
( ) indicator will stay on.
NOTICE
If Cruise Control pauses during a situation that is not mentioned, have Cruise
Cruise Control (CC)
Control inspected by an authorized Kia
dealer.
To resume Cruise Control
Operate the +, - switch or ( ) button.
If you push the + switch up or - switch
down, vehicle speed will be set to the
current speed on the cluster.
If you press the ( ) button, vehicle
speed will resume to the preset speed.
Vehicle speed must be above 20 mph
(30 km/h) for Cruise Control to resume.
WARNING
Check the driving condition before using
the ( ) button. Driving speed may
sharply increase or decrease when you
press the ( ) button.
To turn off Cruise Control
Press the Driving Assist ( ) button to
turn Cruise Control off. The Cruise
( ) indicator will go off.
Always press the Driving Assist button to
turn Cruise Control off when not in use.

--- Page 353 ---
Driver assistance system
NOTICE
If your vehicle is equipped with Manual
Speed Limit Assist, press and hold the
Driving Assist button to turn off Cruise
Control. However, Manual Speed Limit
Assist will turn on.
WARNING
Take the following precautions when
using Cruise Control:
- Always set the vehicle speed under
the speed limit in your country.
- Keep Cruise Control off when the
function is not in use, to avoid inadvertently setting a speed. Check that
the Cruise ( ) indicator is off.
- Cruise Control does not substitute for
proper and safe driving. It is the
responsibility of the driver to always
drive safely and should always be
aware of unexpected and sudden situations from occurring.
- Always drive cautiously to prevent
unexpected and sudden situations
from occurring. Pay attention to the
road conditions at all times.
- Do not use Cruise Control when it may
be unsafe to keep the vehicle at a
constant speed:
- When driving in heavy traffic, or
when traffic conditions make it difficult to drive at a constant speed
- When driving on rainy, icy, or snowcovered roads
- When driving on hily or windy
roads
- When driving in windy areas
- When driving with limited view
(possibly due to bad weather, such
as fog, snow, rain and sandstorm)
- Do not use Cruise Control when towing a trailer.
Smart Cruise Control (SCC)
Smart Cruise Control (SCC) (if
equipped)
Smart Cruise Control is designed to
detect the vehicle ahead and help maintain the desired speed and minimum
distance with the vehicle ahead.
Overtaking Acceleration Assist
While Smart Cruise Control is operating,
if the function judges that the driver is
determined to overtake the vehicle in
front, acceleration will be assisted.
Detecting sensor
Front view camera
Front radar
The front view camera and front radar
are used as a detecting sensor to detect
the vehicles in front.
Refer to the picture above for the
detailed location of the detecting sensor.
CAUTION
- Always keep the front view camera
and front radar in good condition to
maintain optimal performance of
Smart Cruise Control.

--- Page 354 ---
Driver assistance system - For more details on the precautions of
the front view camera and front radar,
refer to "Forward collision-Avoidance
Assist (FCA) (Sensor Fusion) (if
equipped)" on page 6-13.
Smart Cruise Control settings
To turn on Smart Cruise Control
Press the Driving Assist ( ) button to
turn on the function. The speed will be
set to the current speed on the cluster.
- If there is no vehicle in front of you,
the set speed will be maintained.
- If there is a vehicle in front of you, the
speed may be adjusted to maintain
the distance to the vehicle ahead. If
the vehicle ahead accelerates, your
vehicle will travel at a steady cruising
speed after accelerating to the set
speed.
NOTICE
If your vehicle speed is between 0~20
mph (0~30 km/h) when you press the
Driving Assist ( ) button, the set speed
will be set to 20 mph (30 km/h).
To set vehicle distance
Smart Cruise Control (SCC)
Each time the button is pressed, the
vehicle distance changes as follows:
NOTICE
- If you drive at 56 mph (90 km/h), the
distance is maintained as follows:
- Distance 4 - approximately 172 ft.
(52.5 m)
- Distance 3 - approximately 130 ft.
(40 m)
- Distance 2 - approximately 106 ft.
(32.5 m)
- Distance 1 - approximately 82 ft. (25
m)
- The distance is set to the last set distance when the vehicle is restarted, or
when Smart Cruise Control was temporarily canceled.
To increase set speed
Push the + switch up and release it
immediately. The set speed will increase
by 1 mph (1 km/h) each time the switch
is operated in this manner.
- Push the + switch up and hold it. The
set speed will increase by 5 mph (10
km/h) each time the switch is operated in this manner.
- You can set the speed to 110 mph
(180 km/h).

--- Page 355 ---
Driver assistance system
WARNING
Check the driving condition before using
the + switch. Driving speed may sharply
increase when you push up and hold the
+ switch.
To decrease set speed
Push the - switch down and release it
immediately. The set speed will decrease
by 1 mph (1 km/h) each time the switch
is operated in this manner.
- Push the - switch down and hold it.
The set speed will decrease by 5 mph
(10 km/h) each time the switch is
operated in this manner.
- You can set the speed to 20 mph (30
km/h).
To temporarily cancel Smart
Cruise Control
Press the ( ) switch or depress the
brake pedal to temporarily cancel Smart
Cruise Control.
Smart Cruise Control (SCC)
To resume Smart Cruise Control
To resume Smart Cruise Control after
the function was canceled, operate the
+, - or ( ) switch.
- If you push the + switch up or - switch
down, vehicle speed will be set to the
current speed on the cluster.
- If you push the ( ) switch, vehicle
speed will resume to the preset speed.
WARNING
Check the driving condition before using
the ( ) switch. Driving speed may
sharply increase or decrease when you
press the ( ) switch.
To turn off Smart Cruise Control
Press the Driving Assist ( turn Smart Cruise Control off.
) button to
NOTICE
If your vehicle is equipped with Manual
Speed Limit Assist, press and hold the
Driving Assist ( ) button to turn off
Smart Cruise Control. However Manual
Speed Limit Assist will turn on.

--- Page 356 ---
Driver assistance system Based on Drive Mode
Smart Cruise Control will change acceleration based on the drive mode
selected from Drive Mode Integrated
Control function. Refer to the following
chart.
Drive Mode Smart Cruise Control
SMART Normal
SPORT Fast
SNOW Normal
ECO Slow
NORMAL Normal
NOTICE
- For more details on Drive Mode, refer
to "Drive mode integrated control system" on page 5-50.
- Smart Cruise Control may not turn on
or off in some of the drive modes for
the operating conditions are not satisfied.
- If your vehicle is not equipped with
Drive Mode Integrated Control system, Smart Cruise Control accelerates
your vehicle at a normal level.
Warning Methods
Type A
Smart Cruise Control (SCC)
Type B
A: Driver Assistance
1 Warning Methods
The Warning Methods can be set with
the vehicle on. Select User Settings →
Driver Assistance → Warning Methods
from the settings menu in the instrument cluster or Setup → Vehicle →
Driver Assistance → Warning Methods
from the settings menu in the infotainment system to change the following
settings:
- Warning Volume: Adjusts the volume
of the warning sound.
- Haptic Warning: Activate the steering wheel vibration warning. (if
equipped)
- Driving Safety Priority: Lowers al
other audio volumes when the Driving
Safety system sounds a warning.
INFORMATION
- If you change the Warning Methods, it
can be applied to each function of the
driver assistance system. Please
check and change it in each function.
- If the vehicle is restarted, Warning
Methods will maintain the last setting.
- The setting menu may not exist based
on vehicle specification.
- The Warning Volume and Haptic
Warning cannot be turned off at the
same time. When one of the warning
is turned off the other is activated.

--- Page 357 ---
Driver assistance system
Smart Cruise Control operation
Operating conditions
Smart Cruise Control will operate when
the following conditions are satisfied.
Basic function
- The gear is in D (Drive)
- The driver's door is closed
- EPB (Electronic Parking Brake) is not
applied
- Your vehicle speed is within the operating speed range
- When there is no vehicle in front:
5~110 mph (10~180 km/h)
- when there is a vehicle in front:
0~110 mph (0~180 km/h)
- ESC (Electronic Stability Control) or
ABS is on
- ESC (Electronic Stability Control) or
ABS is not controlling the vehicle
- Engine is not running at high RPM
- Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
brake control is not operating
NOTICE
When stopped behind another vehicle,
the driver can turn on Smart Cruise Control while the brake pedal is depressed.
Overtaking Acceleration Assist
Overtaking Acceleration Assist will operate when the turn signal indicator is
turned on to the left while Smart Cruise
Control is operating, and the following
conditions are satisfied:
- Your driving speed is above 40 mph
(60 km/h)
- The hazard warning flasher is off
- A vehicle is detected in front of your
vehicle
Smart Cruise Control (SCC)
- Deceleration is not needed to maintain distance with the vehicle in front
WARNING
- When the turn signal indicator is
turned on to the left while there is a
vehicle ahead, the vehicle may accelerate temporarily. Pay attention to the
road conditions at all times.
- Regardless of your country's driving
direction, Overtaking Acceleration
Assist will operate when the conditions are satisfied. When using the
function in countries with different
driving direction, always check the
road conditions at all times.
Smart Cruise Control display and
control
Basic function
You can see the status of Smart Cruise
Control operation in the Driving Assist
mode on the cluster. Refer to "Instrument cluster" on page 4-61.
Smart Cruise Control will be displayed as
below depending on the status of the
function.
- When operating
1. Whether there is a vehicle ahead
and the selected distance level are
displayed.
2.Set speed is displayed.
3.Whether there is a vehicle ahead
and the selected target distance are
displayed.

--- Page 358 ---
Driver assistance system - When temporarily canceled
1. ( ) indicator is displayed.
2.The previous set speed is shaded.
NOTICE
- The distance of the front vehicle on
the cluster is displayed according to
the actual distance between your
vehicle and the vehicle ahead.
- The target distance may vary according to your driving speed and the set
distance level. If your driving speed is
low, even though the vehicle distance
have changed, the change of the target vehicle distance may be small.
To temporarily accelerate
If you want to speed up temporarily
without altering the set speed while
Smart Cruise Control is operating,
depress the accelerator pedal. While the
accelerator pedal is depressed, the set
speed, distance level and target distance
will blink on the cluster.
However, if the accelerator pedal is
depressed insufficiently, the vehicle may
decelerate.
Smart Cruise Control (SCC)
WARNING
Be careful when accelerating temporarily, because the speed and distance is
not controlled automatically even if
there is a vehicle in front of you.
Smart Cruise Control temporarily
canceled
A: Smart Cruise Control deactivated
Smart Cruise Control will be temporarily
canceled automatically when:
- The vehicle speed is above 120 mph
(190 km/h)
- The vehicle is stopped for a certain
period of time
- The accelerator pedal is continuously
depressed for a certain period of time
- The conditions for Smart Cruise Control to operate is not satisfied
If Smart Cruise Control is temporarily
canceled automatically, a warning message will appear on the cluster, and an
audible warning will sound to warn the
driver.
NOTICE
If Smart Cruise Control is automatically
canceled temporarily when the vehicle is
stopped, the Electronic Parking Brake
(EPB) may be applied.

--- Page 359 ---
Driver assistance system
WARNING
When Smart Cruise Control is temporarily canceled, distance with the front vehicle will not be maintained. Always have
your eyes on the road while driving, and
if necessary, depress the brake pedal to
reduce your driving speed in order to
maintain a safe distance.
Smart Cruise Control conditions
not satisfied
A: Smart Cruise Control conditions not
met
If the Driving Assist button, + switch, -
switch or ( ) switch is pushed when
Smart Cruise Control's operating conditions are not satisfied, a warning message will appear on the cluster, and an
audible warning will sound.
In traffic situation
A: Use switch or pedal to accelerate
In traffic, your vehicle will stop if the
vehicle ahead of you stops. Also, if the
vehicle ahead of you starts moving, your
vehicle will start as well.
Smart Cruise Control (SCC)
In addition, after the vehicle has stopped
and a certain time have passed, a warning message like above will appear on
the cluster. Depress the accelerator
pedal or push the + switch, - switch or
( ) switch to start driving.
Warning road conditions ahead
A: Watch for surrounding vehicles
In the following situation, the warning
message will appear on the cluster, and
an audible warning will sound to warn
the driver of road conditions ahead.
- The vehicle in front disappears when
Smart Cruise Control is maintaining
the distance with the vehicle ahead
while driving below a certain speed.
WARNING
Always pay attention to vehicles or
objects that may suddenly appear in
front of you, and if necessary, depress
the brake pedal to reduce your driving
speed in order to maintain a safe distance.
Collision Warning
A: Collision Warning

--- Page 360 ---
Driver assistance system While Smart Cruise Control is operating,
when the collision risk with the vehicle
ahead is high, a warning message will
appear on the cluster, and an audible
warning will sound to warn the driver.
Always have your eyes on the road while
driving, and if necessary, depress the
brake pedal to reduce your driving
speed in order to maintain a safe distance.
WARNING
In the following situations, Smart Cruise
Control may not warn the driver of a collision.
- The distance from the front vehicle is
near, and the vehicle speed of the
front vehicle is faster or similar with
your vehicle
- The speed of the front vehicle is very
slow or is at a standstil
- The accelerator pedal is depressed
right after Smart Cruise Control is
turned on
WARNING
Take the following precautions when
using Smart Cruise Control:
- Smart Cruise Control does not substitute for proper and safe driving. It is
the responsibility of the driver to
always check the speed and distance
to the vehicle ahead.
- Smart Cruise Control may not detect
unexpected and sudden situations or
complex driving situations, so always
pay attention to driving conditions
and control your vehicle speed.
- Keep Smart Cruise Control off when
the function is not in use to avoid
inadvertently setting a speed.
Smart Cruise Control (SCC)
- Do not open the door when Smart
Cruise Control is operating, even if the
vehicle is stopped.
- Always be aware of the selected
speed and vehicle distance.
- Keep a safe distance according to
road conditions and vehicle speed. If
the vehicle distance is too close
during high-speed driving, a serious
collision may result. Always pay attention to the road condition ahead.
- When maintaining distance with the
vehicle ahead, if the front vehicle disappears, the function may suddenly
accelerate to the set speed. Always be
aware of unexpected and sudden situations from occurring.
- Vehicle speed may decrease on an
upward sloped road and increase on a
downward sloped road.
- Always be aware of situations such as
when a vehicle cuts in suddenly.
- When you are towing a trailer or
another vehicle, we recommend that
Smart Cruise Control is turned off due
to safety reasons.
- Turn off Smart Cruise Control when
your vehicle is being towed.
- Smart Cruise Control may be canceled if interfered by strong electromagnetic waves.
- Smart Cruise Control may not detect
an obstacle in front and lead to a collision. Always look ahead cautiously to
prevent unexpected and sudden situations from occurring.
- Vehicles moving in front of you with a
frequent lane change may cause a
delay in the function's reaction or may
cause the function to react to a vehicle actually in an adjacent lane.
Always drive cautiously to prevent

--- Page 361 ---
Driver assistance system
unexpected and sudden situations
from occurring.
- Always be aware of the surroundings
and drive safely, even though a warning message does not appear or an
audible warning does not sound.
- If any other function's warning message is displayed or warning sound is
generated, Smart Cruise Control
warning message may not be displayed and warning sound may not
be generated.
- You may not hear the warning sound
of Smart Cruise Control if the surroundings are noisy. Always pay
attention to the road condition ahead.
- The vehicle manufacturer is not
responsible for any traffic violation or
accidents caused by the driver while
Smart Cruise Control is operating.
- Always set the vehicle speed under
the speed limit in your country.
NOTICE
- Smart Cruise Control may not operate
for 15 seconds after the vehicle is
restarted or the front view camera or
front radar is initialized.
- You may hear a sound when the
brake is controlled by Smart Cruise
Control.
NOTICE
The images or colors may be displayed
differently depending on the specifications of the instrument cluster or theme.
Smart Cruise Control (SCC)
Smart Cruise Control malfunction and limitations
Smart Cruise Control malfunction
A: Check Smart Cruise Control System
When Smart Cruise Control is not working properly, a warning message will
appear, and the ( ) warning light will
appear on the cluster. Have Smart
Cruise Control be inspected by a professional workshop. Have Smart Cruise
Control inspected by an authorized Kia
dealer.
Smart Cruise Control disabled
A: Smart Cruise Control disabled.
Radar blocked
When the front radar cover or sensor is
covered with snow, rain, or foreign
material, it can reduce the detecting performance and temporarily limit or disable Smart Cruise Control.
If this occurs, a warning message will
appear on the cluster.
Smart Cruise Control will operate normally when snow, rain or foreign material is removed.

--- Page 362 ---
Driver assistance system Smart Cruise Control (SCC)
WARNING
Even though the warning message does
not appear on the cluster, Smart Cruise
Control may not properly operate.
CAUTION
Smart Cruise Control may not properly
operate in an area (e.g. open terrain),
where there is nothing to detect after
turning ON the vehicle.
Limitations of Smart Cruise Control
Smart Cruise Control may not operate
normally under the following circumstances:
- The detecting sensor or the surroundings are contaminated or damaged
- Washer fluid is continuously sprayed,
or the wiper is on
- The camera lens is contaminated due
to tinted, filmed or coated windshield,
damaged glass, or stuck of foreign
material (sticker, bug, etc.) on the
glass
- Moisture is not removed or frozen on
the windshield
- The field of view of the front view
camera is obstructed by sun glare
- Street light or light from an oncoming
vehicle is reflected on the wet road
surface, such as a puddle on the road
- The temperature around the front
view camera is high or low
- An object is placed on the dashboard
- The surroundings are very bright
- The surroundings are very dark, such
as in a tunnel, etc.
- The brightness changes suddenly, for
example when entering or exiting a
tunnel
- The brightness outside is low, and the
headlamps are not on or are not
bright
- Driving in heavy rain or snow, or thick
fog
- Driving through steam, smoke or
shadow
- Only part of the vehicle is detected
- The vehicle in front has no tail lights,
tail lights are located unusually, etc.
- The brightness outside is low, and the
tail lamps of the vehicle in front are
not on or are not bright
- The rear of the front vehicle is small or
does not look normal (i.e. tilted, overturned, etc.)
- The front vehicle's ground clearance
is low or high
- A vehicle suddenly cuts in front
- Your vehicle is being towed
- Driving through a tunnel or iron
bridge
- Driving near areas containing metal
substances, such as a construction
zone, railroad, etc.
- A material is near that reflects very
well on the front radar, such as a
guardrail, nearby vehicle, etc.
- The bumper around the front radar is
impacted, damaged or the front radar
is out of position
- The temperature around the front
radar is high or low
- Driving in large areas where there are
few vehicles or structures (i.e. desert,
meadow, suburb, etc.)
- The vehicle in front is made of material that does not reflect on the front
radar
- Driving near a highway (or motorway)
interchange or tolgate

--- Page 363 ---
Driver assistance system
- Driving on a slippery surface due to
snow, water puddle, ice, etc.
- Driving on a curved road
- The vehicle in front is detected late
- The vehicle in front is suddenly
blocked by a obstacle
- The vehicle in front suddenly changes
lane or suddenly reduces speed
- The vehicle in front is bent out of
shape
- The front vehicle's speed is fast or
slow
- With a vehicle in front, your vehicle
changes lane suddenly at low speed
- The vehicle in front is covered with
snow
- Unstable driving
- You are on a roundabout and the
vehicle in front is not detected
- You are continuously driving in a circle
- Driving in a parking lot
- Driving through a construction area,
unpaved road, partial paved road,
uneven road, speed bumps, etc.
- Driving on an incline road, curved
road, etc.
- Driving through a roadside with trees
or streetlights
- The adverse road conditions cause
excessive vehicle vibrations while
driving
- Your vehicle height is low or high due
to heavy loads, abnormal tire pressure, etc.
- Driving through a narrow road where
trees or grass are overgrown
- There is interference by electromagnetic waves, such as driving in an area
with strong radio waves or electrical
noise
Smart Cruise Control (SCC)
- Driving on a curved road
On curved roads, Smart Cruise Control may not detect a vehicle in the
same lane, and may accelerate to the
set speed. Also, vehicle speed may
rapidly decrease when the vehicle
ahead is detected suddenly.
Select the appropriate set speed on
curved roads and apply the brake
pedal or accelerator pedal according
to the road and driving conditions
ahead.
Your vehicle speed can be reduced
due to a vehicle in the adjacent lane.
Check to be sure that the road conditions permit safe operation of Smart
Cruise Control and if necessary,
depress the brake pedal to reduce
your driving speed in order to maintain a safe distance.
- Driving on a sloped road
During uphill or downhill driving,
Smart Cruise Control may not detect a

--- Page 364 ---
Driver assistance system moving vehicle in your lane, and
cause your vehicle to accelerate to the
set speed. Also, vehicle speed will rapidly decrease when the vehicle ahead
is detected suddenly.
Select the appropriate set speed on
sloped roads and apply the brake
pedal or accelerator pedal according
to the road and driving conditions
ahead.
- Changing lanes
[A]: Your vehicle
[B]: Lane changing vehicle
When a vehicle moves into your lane
from an adjacent lane, it cannot be
detected by the sensor until it is in the
sensor's detection range. Smart
Cruise Control may not immediately
detect the vehicle when the vehicle
changes lanes abruptly. Always pay
attention to the road and driving conditions and drive safely. If necessary,
depress the brake pedal to reduce
your driving speed in order to maintain a safe distance.
- Detecting a vehicle
Smart Cruise Control (SCC)
In the following cases, some vehicles
in your lane cannot be detected by
the sensor:
- Vehicles offset to one side
- Slow-moving vehicles or suddendecelerating vehicles
- Vehicles with higher ground clearance or vehicles carrying loads that
stick out of the back of the vehicle
- Vehicles that has the front lifted
due to heavy loads
- Oncoming vehicles
- Stopped vehicles
- Vehicles with small rear profile,
such as trailers
- Narrow vehicles, such as motorcycles or bicycles
- Special vehicles
- Animals and pedestrians
- Vehicle at a short distance (about
2m)
In the following cases, the vehicle in
front cannot be detected by the sensor. Always pay attention to the road

--- Page 365 ---
Driver assistance system
and driving conditions and drive
safely. If necessary, adjust your vehicle speed.
- You are steering your vehicle
- Driving on narrow or sharply
curved roads
- When a vehicle ahead disappears at
an intersection, your vehicle may
accelerate.
Always pay attention to road and driving conditions while driving.
- When a vehicle in front of you merges
out of the lane, Smart Cruise Control
may not immediately detect the new
vehicle that is now in front of you.
Always pay attention to road and driving conditions while driving.
- Always look out for pedestrians when
your vehicle is maintaining a distance
with the vehicle ahead.
Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control (NSCC)
Navigation-based Smart
Cruise Control (NSCC) (if
equipped)
Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control
will help automatically adjust vehicle
speed when driving on highways (or
motorways) by using road information
from the navigation function while Smart
Cruise Control is operating.
NOTICE
- Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control is available only on controlled
access road of certain highways.
* controlled access road indicates
roads with limited entrances and
exits that allow uninterrupted high
speed traffic flow. Only passenger
cars and motorcycles are allowed on
controlled access roads.
Available highway (controlled access road)
USA Select Interstate Highway and U.S. (Federal) and
State Highways
Canada Select Provincial and Territorial Highways
- Additional highways may be
expanded by future navigation
updates.
NOTICE
Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control
operates on main roads of highways (or
motorways), and does not operate on
interchanges or junctions.
WARNING
Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control
is a supplemental system and is not a
substitute for safe driving. It is the
responsibility of the driver to always
check the speed and distance to the

--- Page 366 ---
Driver assistance system vehicle ahead. Always drive safely and
use caution.
Highway Curve Zone Auto Slowdown
If vehicle speed is high, Highway Curve
Zone Auto Slowdown function will temporarily decelerate your vehicle or limit
acceleration to help you drive safely on a
curve based on the curve information
from the navigation.
Highway Set Speed Auto Change
Highway Set Speed Auto Change function automatically changes Smart Cruise
Control set speed based on the speed
limit information from the navigation.
Navigation-based Smart Cruise
Control settings
A: Driver Assistance
1 Driving Convenience
2 Highway Auto Speed Change
With the vehicle on, select Settings→
Driver Assistance → Driving Convenience → Highway Auto Speed
Changefrom the User settings menu or
select Settings → Vehicle → Driver
Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control (NSCC)
Assistance→ Driving Convenience →
Highway Auto Speed Change from the
infotainment system screen to turn on
Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control
and deselect to turn off the function.
NOTICE
When there is a problem with Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control, the
function cannot be set from the Settings
menu.
Navigation-based Smart Cruise
Control operation
Operating conditions
Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control
is ready to operate if all of the following
conditions are satisfied:
- Smart Cruise Control is operating
- Driving on main roads of highways (or
motorways)
WARNING
Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control
(NSCC) is a supplemental system and is
not a substitute for safe driving. It is the
responsibility of the driver to always
check the speed and distance to the
vehicle ahead. Always drive safely and
use caution.
NOTICE
For more details on how to operate
Smart Cruise Control, refer to "Smart
Cruise Control (SCC) (if equipped)" on
page 6-60.
Navigation-based Smart Cruise
Control display and control
When Navigation-based Smart Cruise
Control operates, it will be displayed on
the cluster as follows:

--- Page 367 ---
Driver assistance system
Navigation-based Smart Cruise
Control standby
If the operating conditions are satisfied,
the white ( ) symbol will appear.
Navigation-based Smart Cruise
Control operating
If temporary deceleration is required in
the standby state and Navigation-based
Smart Cruise Control is operating, the
green ( ) symbol will appear on the
cluster.
If the Highway Set Speed Auto Change
function operates, the green ( )
symbol and set speed will appear on the
cluster, and an audible warning will
sound.
WARNING
The warning message will appear in the
following circumstances:
A: Drive carefully
Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control (NSCC)
- Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control is not able to slow down your
vehicle to a safe speed.
NOTICE
- Highway Curve Zone Auto Slowdown
and Set Speed Auto Change function
uses the same ( ) symbol.
- The images or colors may be displayed differently depending on the
specifications of the instrument cluster or theme.
Highway Curve Zone Auto Slowdown
Depending on the curve ahead on the
highway (or motorway), the vehicle will
decelerate, and after passing the curve,
the vehicle will accelerate to Smart
Cruise Control set speed.
NOTICE
Vehicle deceleration time may differ
depending on the vehicle speed and the
degree of the curve on the road. The
higher the driving speed, deceleration
will start faster.
Highway Set Speed Auto Change
Highway Set Speed Auto Change function will operate when Smart Cruise Control set speed and the highway (or
motorway) speed limit is matched.
While Highway Set Speed Auto Change
function is operating, when the highway
(or motorway), speed limit changes,
Smart Cruise Control set speed automatically changes to the changed speed
limit.

--- Page 368 ---
Driver assistance system - If Highway Set Speed Auto Change
function has changed to the standby
state by driving on a road other than
the highway (or motorway) main road,
Highway Set Speed Auto Change
function will operate again when you
drive on the main road again without
setting the set speed.
- If Highway Set Speed Auto Change
function has changed to the standby
state by depressing the brake pedal,
press the ( ) switch to restart the
function.
NOTICE
- If Smart Cruise Control set speed is
adjusted different from the speed
limit, Highway Set Speed Auto
Change function will be in the standby
state.
- Highway Set Speed Auto Change
function only operates based on the
speed limits of the highway (or motorway), it does not work with the speed
cameras.
- When Highway Set Speed Auto
Change function is operating, the
vehicle automatically accelerates or
decelerates when the highway (or
motorway) speed limit changes.
- The maximum set speed for Highway
Set Speed Auto Change function is 90
mph (140 km/h).
- If the speed limit of a new road is not
updated in the navigation, Highway
Set Speed Auto Change function may
not operate properly.
- If the speed unit is set to a unit other
than the speed unit used in your
country, Highway Set Speed Auto
Change function may not operate
properly.
Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control (NSCC)
- When Highway Set Speed Auto
Change function is operating, the
vehicle may warn the driver when the
vehicle's set speed limit is above the
speed camera limit.
- Highway Set Speed Auto Change
function does not operate on highway
interchanges or junctions.
Navigation-based Smart Cruise
Control limitations
Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control
may not operate normally under the following circumstances:
- The navigation is not working properly
- Map information is not transmitted
due to infotainment system's abnormal operation
- Speed limit and road information in
the navigation is not updated
- The map information and the actual
road is different because of real-time
GPS data or map information error
- The navigation searches for a route
while driving
- GPS signals are blocked in areas such
as a tunnel
- A road that divides into two or more
roads and joins again
- The driver goes off course the route
set in the navigation
- The route to the destination is
changed or canceled by resetting the
navigation
- The vehicle enters a service station or
rest area
- Android Auto or Car Play is operating
- The navigation cannot detect the current vehicle position (ex: elevated
roads including overpass adjacent to

--- Page 369 ---
Driver assistance system
general roads or nearby roads exist in
a parallel way)
- The navigation is being updated while
driving
- The navigation is being restarted
while driving
- The speed limit of some sections
changes according to the road situations
- Driving on a road under construction
- Driving on a road that is controlled
- There is bad weather, such as heavy
rain, heavy snow, etc.
- Driving on a road that is sharply
curved
[1]: Set route, [2]: Branch line, [3]: Driving
route, [4]: Main road, [5]: Curved road
section
- When there is a difference between
the navigation set route (branch line)
and the driving route (main road),
Highway Curve Zone Auto Slowdown
function may not operate until the
driving route is recognized as the
main road.
- When the vehicle's driving route is
recognized as the main road by maintaining the main road instead of the
navigation set route, Highway Curve
Zone Auto Slowdown function will
operate. Depending on the distance to
the curve and the current vehicle
speed, vehicle deceleration may not
be sufficient or may decelerate rapidly.
Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control (NSCC)
[1]: Main road, [2]: Branch line, [3]: Driving route, [4]: Set route, [5]: Curved road
section
- When there is a difference between
the navigation route (main road) and
the driving route (branch line), Highway Curve Zone Auto Slowdown function will operate temporarily based on
the curve information on the main
road.
- When it is judged that you are driving
out of the route by entering the highway interchange or junction, Highway
Curve Zone Auto Slowdown function
will not operate.
[1]: Driving route, [2]: Branch line, [3]:
Curved road section, [4]: Main road
- If there is no destination set on the
navigation, Highway Curve Zone Auto
Slowdown function will operate based
on the curve information on the main
road.
- Even if you depart from the main
road, Highway Curve Zone Auto Slowdown function may temporarily operate due to navigation information of
the highway curve section.

--- Page 370 ---
Driver assistance system Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control (NSCC)
WARNING
- Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control is not a substitute for safe driving
practices, but a convenience function.
Always have your eyes on the road,
and it is the responsibility of the driver
to avoid violating traffic laws.
- The navigation's speed limit information may differ from the actual speed
limit information on the road. It is the
driver's responsibility to check the
speed limit on the actual driving road
or lane.
- Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control will automatically be canceled
when you leave the highway (or
motorway) main road. Always pay
attention to road and driving conditions while driving.
- Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control may not operate due to the existence of leading vehicles and the
driving conditions of the vehicle.
Always pay attention to road and driving conditions while driving.
- When you are towing a trailer or
another vehicle, we recommend that
Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control is turned off due to safety reasons.
- After you pass through a tolgate on a
highway (or motorway), Navigationbased Smart Cruise Control will operate based on the first lane. If you enter
one of the other lanes, the function
might not operate properly.
- The vehicle will accelerate if the driver
depresses the accelerator pedal while
Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control is operating, and the function will
not decelerate the vehicle. However, if
the accelerator pedal is depressed
insufficiently, the vehicle may decelerate.
- If the driver accelerates and releases
the accelerator pedal while Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control is
operating, the vehicle may not decelerate sufficiently or may rapidly
decelerate to a safe speed.
- If the curve is too large or too small,
Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control may not operate.
NOTICE
- The speed information on the cluster
and navigation may differ.
- The time gap could occur between
the navigation's guidance and when
Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control operation starts and ends.
- Even if you are driving at a speed
lower than Smart Cruise Control set
speed, acceleration may be limited by
the curve sections ahead.
- If Navigation-based Smart Cruise
Control is operating while leaving the
main road to enter an interchange,
junction, rest area, etc., the function
may operate for a certain period of
time.
- Deceleration by Navigation-based
Smart Cruise Control may feel it is not
sufficient due to road conditions such
as uneven road surfaces, narrow
lanes, etc.

--- Page 371 ---
Driver assistance system
This device complies with Part 15
of the FCC rules.
Operation is subject to the following
three conditions:
1. This device may not cause harmful
interference, and
2.This device must accept any interference received, including interference
that may cause undesired operation.
3.Changes or modifications not
expressly approved by the party
responsible for compliance could void
the user's authority to operate the
device.
Radio frequency radiation exposure information:
This equipment complies with FCC radiation exposure limits set forth for an
uncontroled environment. This equipment should be installed and operated
with minimum distance of 8 inches (20
cm) between the radiator (antenna) and
your body. This transmitter must not be
colocated or operating in conjunction
with any other antenna or transmitter.
Lane Following Assist (LFA)
Lane Following Assist (LFA)
Lane following Assist is designed to help
detect lane markings and/or vehicles on
the road, and assists the driver's steering
to help keep the vehicle between lanes.
Detecting sensor
Front view camera
The front view camera is used as a
detecting sensor to detect lane markings
and front vehicles.
Refer to the picture above for the
detailed location of the detecting sensor.
CAUTION
For more details on the precautions of
the front view camera, refer to "Forward
collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Front
Camera Only) (if equipped)" on page 6-
4.
Lane Following Assist settings
Turning Lane Following Assist
On/Off
With the vehicle on, shortly press the
Lane Driving Assist button located on
the steering wheel to turn on Lane Fol-

--- Page 372 ---
Driver assistance system lowing Assist. The gray or green ( )
indicator light will appear on the cluster.
Press the button again to turn off the
function.
Warning Methods
Type A
Type B
A: Driver Assistance
1 Warning Methods
The Warning Methods can be set with
the vehicle on. Select User Settings →
Driver Assistance → Warning Methods
from the settings menu in the instrument cluster or Setup → Vehicle →
Driver Assistance → Warning Methods
from the settings menu in the infotainment system to change the following
settings:
- Warning Volume: Adjusts the volume
of the warning sound.
- Driving Safety Priority: Lowers al
other audio volumes when the Driving
Safety system sounds a warning.
INFORMATION
- If you change the Warning Methods, it
can be applied to each function of the
Lane Following Assist (LFA)
driver assistance system. Please
check and change it in each function.
- If the vehicle is restarted, Warning
Methods will maintain the last setting.
- The setting menu may not exist based
on vehicle specification.
Lane Following Assist operation
Lane following Assist will control and
warn the vehicle by 'Lane following
Assist' and 'Hands-off warning'.
Lane Following Assist
If the vehicle ahead and/or both lane
markings are detected and your vehicle
speed is below 110 mph (180 km/h),
Lane following Assist will help center the
vehicle in the lane by assisting the steering wheel. The green ( ) indicator light
will appear on the cluster.
CAUTION
When the steering wheel is not assisted,
the white ( ) indicator light will blink
and change to grey.
Hands-off warning

--- Page 373 ---
Driver assistance system
A: Keep hands on steering wheel
If the driver takes their hands off the
steering wheel for several seconds, the
warning message will appear and an
audible warning will sound in stages.
- First stage: Warning message
- Second stage: Warning message (red
steering wheel) and audible warning
A: Lane Following Assist deactivated
If the driver still does not have their
hands on the steering wheel after the
hands-off warning, the warning message will appear and Lane following
Assist will be automatically canceled.
WARNING
- The steering wheel may not be
assisted if the steering wheel is held
very tight or the steering wheel is
steered over a certain degree.
- Lane following Assist does not operate at all times. It is the responsibility
of the driver to safely steer the vehicle
and to maintain the vehicle in its lane.
- The hands-off warning message may
appear late depending on road conditions. Always have your hands on the
steering wheel while driving.
- If the steering wheel is held very
lightly the hands-off warning message may appear because Lane Following Assist may not detect that the
driver has their hands on the steering
wheel.
Lane Following Assist (LFA)
- If you attach objects to the steering
wheel, the hands-off warning may not
work properly.
NOTICE
- For more details on setting Lane Following Assist in the infotainment system, refer to Navigation Quick
Reference Guide.
- When both lane markings are
detected, the lane lines on the cluster
will change from grey to white.
Lane undetected
Lane detected
- The images and colors in the cluster
may differ depending on the cluster
type or theme selected from the cluster.
- If lane markings are not detected,
steering wheel control by Lane Following Assist can be limited depending on whether a vehicle is in front or
the driving conditions of the vehicle.
- Even though the steering is assisted
by Lane following Assist, the driver
may control the steering wheel.
- The steering wheel may feel heavier
or lighter when the steering wheel is

--- Page 374 ---
Driver assistance system assisted by Lane following Assist than
when it is not.
Lane Following Assist malfunction and limitations
Lane Following Assist malfunction
A: Check Lane Following Assist system
When Lane following Assist is not working properly, the warning message will
appear and the master warning light ( )
will appear on the cluster. If this occurs,
have Lane following Assist inspected by
an authorized Kia dealer.
Limitations of Lane Following
Assist
For more details on Lane following
Assist limitations, refer to "Lane Keeping
Assist (LKA)" on page 6-25.
WARNING
For more details on Lane following
Assist precautions, refer to "Lane Keeping Assist (LKA)" on page 6-25.
Highway Driving Assist (HDA)
Highway Driving Assist (HDA)
(if equipped)
Highway Driving Assist is designed to
help detect vehicles and lanes ahead,
and help maintain distance from the
vehicle ahead, maintain the set speed,
and keep the vehicle between lanes
while driving on the highway (or motorway).
NOTICE
- Highway Driving Assist is available
only on controlled access road of certain highways. (except for the interchange/junction)
* controlled access road indicates
roads with limited entrances and
exits that allow uninterrupted high
speed traffic flow. Only passenger
cars and motorcycles are allowed on
controlled access roads.
Available highway (controlled access road)
USA Select Interstate Highway and U.S. (Federal) and
State Highways
Canada Select Provincial and Territorial Highways
- Additional highways may be
expanded by future navigation
updates.

--- Page 375 ---
Driver assistance system
Detecting sensor
Front view camera
Front radar
Refer to the picture above for the
detailed location of the detecting sensors.
CAUTION
For more details on the precautions of
the detecting sensors, refer to "Forward
collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) (Sensor Fusion) (if equipped)" on page 6-13.
Highway Driving Assist settings
A: Driver Assistance
Highway Driving Assist (HDA)
1 Driving convenience
2 Highway Driving Assist
With the vehicle on, select or deselect
Driver Assistance → Driving Convenience from the infotainment system
screen to set whether or not to use each
function.
- If Motorway Driving Assist is
selected, it helps maintain distance
from the vehicle ahead, maintain the
set speed, and helps center the vehicle in the lane.
NOTICE
- If there is a problem with the functions, the settings cannot be changed.
Have the function inspected by an
authorized Kia dealer.
- If the vehicle is restarted, the functions will maintain the last setting.
WARNING
For your safety, change the Settings
after parking the vehicle at a safe location.
Warning Methods
A: Driver Assistance
1 Warning Methods
The Warning Methods can be set with
the vehicle on. Select Setup → Vehicle
→ Driver Assistance → Warning Methods from the settings menu in the info-

--- Page 376 ---
Driver assistance system tainment system to change the following
settings:
- Warning Volume: Adjusts the volume
of the warning sound.
- Driving Safety Priority: Lowers al
other audio volumes when the Driving
Safety system sounds a warning.
INFORMATION
- If you change the Warning Methods, it
can be applied to each function of the
driver assistance system. Please
check and change it in each function.
- If the vehicle is restarted, Warning
Methods will maintain the last setting.
- The setting menu may not exist based
on vehicle specification.
Highway Driving Assist operation
Display and control
You can see the status of the Highway
Driving Assist operation in the Driving
Assist view on the cluster. Refer to
"Instrument cluster" on page 4-61.
Highway Driving Assist will be displayed
as below depending on the status of the
function.
Operating State
Highway Driving Assist (HDA)
Standby State
1 Highway Driving Assist indicator,
whether there is a vehicle ahead and
the selected distance level are displayed.
- Highway Driving Assist indicator
- Green: Operating state
- Grey: Standby state
- White blink: Accelerator
depressed state
2 Set speed is displayed.
3 Lane following Assist indicator displayed.
4 Whether there is a vehicle ahead and
the target vehicle distance are displayed.
5 Whether the lane is detected or not is
displayed.
NOTICE
- For more details on the display, refer
to "Smart Cruise Control (SCC) (if
equipped)" on page 6-60.
- For more details on the display, refer
to "Lane following Assist (LFA)" on
page 6-78.
- The images or colors may be displayed differently depending on the
specifications of the instrument cluster or theme.
Highway Driving Assist operating
When driving on available road, press
Drive Assist button to turn on Highway
Driving Assist.

--- Page 377 ---
Driver assistance system
Highway Driving Assist will operate
when satisfying all the following conditions:
- Pressing Driving Assist button to
operate Highway Driving Assist
- Entering or driving on the operable
road when Smart Cruise Control and
Lane following Assist is operating
Restarting after stopping
A: Use switch or pedal to accelerate
When Highway Driving Assist is operating, your vehicle will stop if the vehicle
ahead of you stops. Also, if the vehicle
ahead of you starts moving approximately within 30 seconds after the stop,
your vehicle will start as well. In addition,
after the vehicle has stopped and
approximately 30 seconds have passed,
the Use switch or pedal to accelerate
message will appear on the cluster.
Depress the accelerator pedal or push
the + switch, - switch or ( ) switch to
start driving.
Hands-off warning
A: Keep hands on steering wheel
If the driver takes their hands off the
steering wheel for several seconds, the
Highway Driving Assist (HDA)
warning message will appear and an
audible warning will sound in stages.
- First stage: Warning message
- Second stage: Warning message (red
steering wheel) and audible warning
A: Highway Driving Assist deactivated
If the driver still does not have their
hands on the steering wheel after the
hands-off warning, the warning message will appear and Highway Driving
Assist and Lane following Assist will be
automatically canceled.
Driving speed limit
A: Driver's grasp not detected. Driving
speed will be limited
When Highway Driving Assist is canceled by the hands-off warning, The
driving speed will be limited. While Driving Speed Limit function is operating,
the warning message will appear on the
cluster, and an audible warning will
sound continuously.
Highway Driving Assist standby
When the Smart Cruise Control is temporarily canceled while Highway Driving
Assist is operating, Highway Driving
Assist will be in the standby state. At this

--- Page 378 ---
Driver assistance system time, Lane following Assist will operate
normally.
NOTICE
- Driving Speed Limit helps you drive
below 40 mph (60 km/h). At this time,
the vehicle decelerates due to the
vehicle ahead. After the vehicle has
decelerated, it cannot automatically
accelerate.
- Driving Speed Limit will cancel in the
following circumstances:
- When the driver grabs the steering
wheel again
- When the driver turns on Lane Following Assist by pressing the Lane
Driving Assist button
- When Smart Cruise Control switch
+, -, ( ), or ( ) switch is pushed, or
the accelerator pedal or the brake
pedal is depressed
Highway Driving Assist malfunction and limitations
Highway Driving Assist malfunction
A: Check Highway Driving Assist system
When Highway Driving Assist is not
working properly, the warning message
will appear, and the ( ) warning light
will appear on the cluster. Have Highway
Driving Assist be inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.
Highway Driving Assist (HDA)
WARNING
- The driver is responsible for controlling the vehicle for safe driving.
- Always have your hands on the steering wheel while driving.
- Highway Driving Assist is a supplemental function that assists the driver
in driving the vehicle and is not a
complete autonomous driving system.
Always check road conditions, and if
necessary, take appropriate actions to
drive safely.
- Always have your eyes on the road,
and it is the responsibility of the driver
to avoid violating traffic laws. The
vehicle manufacturer is not responsible for any traffic violation or accidents caused by the driver.
- Highway Driving Assist may not be
able to recognize all traffic situations.
The function may not detect possible
collisions due to limitations. Always be
aware of the limitations. Obstacles
such as vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles, pedestrians, guardrails, tolgate,
unspecified objects, structures, etc.
that may colide with the vehicle may
not be detected.
- Highway Driving Assist will turn off
automatically under the following situations:
- Driving on roads that the function
does not operate, such as a rest
area, intersection, junction, etc.
- The navigation does not operate
properly such as when the navigation is being updated or restarted
- Highway Driving Assist may inadvertently operate or turn off depending
on road conditions (navigation information) and surroundings.

--- Page 379 ---
Driver assistance system
- Lane following Assist function may be
temporarily disabled when the front
view camera cannot detect lanes
properly or the hands-off warning is
on.
- You may not hear the warning sound
of Highway Driving Assist if the surroundings are noisy.
- If the vehicle is driven at high speed
above a certain speed at a curve, your
vehicle may drive to one side or may
depart from the driving lane.
- When you are towing a trailer or
another vehicle, we recommend that
Highway Driving Assist is turned off
due to safety reasons.
- The hands-off warning message may
appear early or late depending on
how the steering wheel is held or road
conditions. Always have your hands
on the steering wheel while driving.
- For your safety, please read the
owner's manual before using the
Highway Driving Assist.
- Highway Driving Assist will not operate when the vehicle is started, or
when the detecting sensors or navigation is being initialized.
Limitations of Highway Driving
Assist
Highway Driving Assist may not operate
normally, or may not operate under the
following circumstances:
- The map information and the actual
road is different because the navigation is not updated
- The map information and the actual
road is different because of real-time
GPS data or map information error
- The infotainment system is overloaded by simultaneously performing
Highway Driving Assist (HDA)
functions such as route search, video
playback, voice recognition, etc.
- GPS signals are blocked in areas such
as a tunnel
- The driver goes off course or the
route to the destination is changed or
canceled by resetting the navigation
(including Kia Live change)
- The vehicle enters a service station or
rest area
- Android Auto or CarPlay is operating
- The navigation cannot detect the current vehicle position (ex: elevated
roads including overpass adjacent to
general roads or nearby roads exist in
a parallel way)
NOTICE
For more details on the limitations of the
front view camera and front radar, refer
to "Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
(FCA) (Sensor Fusion) (if equipped)" on
page 6-13.
This device complies with Part 15
of the FCC rules.
Operation is subject to the following
three conditions:
1. This device may not cause harmful
interference, and
2.This device must accept any interference received, including interference
that may cause undesired operation.
3.Changes or modifications not
expressly approved by the party
responsible for compliance could void
the user's authority to operate the
device.

--- Page 380 ---
Driver assistance system Rear View Monitor (RVM)
Radio frequency radiation exposure information:
This equipment complies with FCC radiation exposure limits set forth for an
uncontroled environment. This equipment should be installed and operated
with minimum distance of 8 inches (20
cm) between the radiator (antenna) and
your body. This transmitter must not be
colocated or operating in conjunction
with any other antenna or transmitter.
Rear View Monitor (RVM) (if
equipped)
Rear View Monitor will show the area
behind the vehicle to assist you when
parking or reversing.
Detecting sensor
Rear view camera
Refer to the picture above for the
detailed location of the detecting sensor.
Rear View Monitor settings
Warning Methods
A: Driver Assistance
1 Warning Methods

--- Page 381 ---
Driver assistance system
The Warning Methods can be set with
the vehicle on. Select Setup → Vehicle
→ Driver Assistance → Warning Methods from the settings menu in the infotainment system to change the following
settings:
- Parking Safety Priority: Lowers al
other audio volumes when Rear View
Monitor is active.
INFORMATION
- If you change the Warning Methods, it
can be applied to each function of the
driver assistance system. Please
check and change it in each function.
- If the vehicle is restarted, Warning
Methods will maintain the last setting.
- The setting menu may not exist based
on vehicle specification.
Camera settings
With the vehicle on, select the setup icon
( ) on the screen or Settings → Vehicle
→ Driver Assistance → Parking Safety
→ Camera settings from the infotainment system screen to change the Rear
View Monitor settings.
- Display Contents: To change the settings of rear view with parking guidance.
- Display Settings: To change the
screen's brightness and contrast.
Extend Rear Camera Monitor
With the vehicle on, select or deselect
Settings → Vehicle → Driver Assis-
Rear View Monitor (RVM)
tance → Parking Safety → Camera
settings → Display contents → Keep
rear camera on from the infotainment
system screen to set whether or not to
use each function.
Rear View Monitor operation
Parking/View button
Press the Parking/View button (1) to turn
on or off Rear View Monitor.
Rear view
Operating conditions
Rear View Monitor will turn on when the
following conditions are satisfied:
- Shifting the gear to R (Reverse).
- Pressing the Parking/View button (1)
while P (Park) gear position is selected
- Pressing the View icon with the Rear
top view on the screen
Off conditions
Rear View Monitor will turn off when the
following conditions are satisfied:
- Pressing the Parking/View button (1)
again while P (Park) gear position is
selected. with the rear view on the
screen.

--- Page 382 ---
Driver assistance system - Changing the gear from R (Reverse)
to P (Park).
NOTICE
The rear view cannot be turned off when
the gear is in R (Reverse).
Extended Rear View Monitor
Extended Rear View Monitor function
maintains the rear view of the vehicle
when shifting the gear from R (Reverse)
to N (Neutral) or D (Drive) to help you
park safely.
Operating conditions
Rear View Monitor will maintain when
the following conditions are satisfied:
- Shifting the gear from R (Reverse) to
N (Neutral) or D (Drive).
- The vehicle speed is below approximately 6 mph (10 km/h).
Off conditions
Extended Rear View Monitor function
will turn off when one the following conditions are satisfied:
- The vehicle speed is above approximately 6 mph (10 km/h).
- Pressing the Parking/View button (1).
- Shifting the gear to P (Park).
Rear top view
Rear top view shows the distance from
the vehicle or the object in the back of
your vehicle while parking.
Rear View Monitor (RVM)
) to
Press the Rear top view button ( turn on Rear top view.
Rear View Monitor malfunction
and limitations
Rear View Monitor malfunction
When Rear View Monitor is not working
properly, or the screen flickers, or the
camera image does not display normally, have the vehicle inspected by an
authorized Kia dealer.
Limitations of Rear View Monitor
WARNING
- The rear view camera does not cover
the complete area behind the vehicle.
The driver should always check the
rear area directly through the inside
and outside rear view mirror before
parking or Reversing.
- The image shown on the screen may
differ from the actual distance of the
object. Make sure to directly check the
vehicle's surroundings for safety.
- If the camera lens is covered with foreign material, the Rear View Monitor
may not operate normally. Always
keep the camera lens clean. However,
do not use chemical solvents such as
strong detergents containing high
alkaline or volatile organic solvents
(gasoline, acetone etc.). This may
damage the camera lens.

--- Page 383 ---
Driver assistance system
Blind-Spot View Monitor
(BVM) (if equipped)
Left side
Right side
Blind-Spot View Monitor displays the
rear blind spot area of the vehicle in the
cluster when the turn signal is turned on
to help safely change lanes.
Detecting sensor
Wide-side view camera
(camera located at bottom of the mirror)
Refer to the picture above for the
detailed location of the detecting sensors.
Blind-Spot View Monitor (BVM)
Blind-Spot View Monitor settings
Blind-Spot View
With the vehicle on, select Driver Assistance → Blind-Spot Safety → Blind-
Spot View from the Settings menu to
turn on Blind-Spot View Monitor and
deselect to turn off the function.
Blind-Spot View Monitor operation
Turn signal switch
Blind-Spot View Monitor will turn on and
off when the turn signal is turned on and
off.
Blind-Spot View Monitor
Operating conditions
- When the left or right turn signal turns
on, the image on the instrument cluster will turn on.
Off conditions
Blind-Spot View Monitor will turn off
when one of the following conditions are
satisfied:
- When the turn signal is turned off.
- When the hazard warning flasher is
on.
- When other important warning is displayed on the instrument cluster.

--- Page 384 ---
Driver assistance system Blind-Spot View Monitor malfunction
When Blind-Spot View Monitor is not
working properly, or the cluster display
flickers, or the camera image does not
display normally, have Blind-Spot View
Monitor inspected by an authorized Kia
dealer.
WARNING
- The image shown on the cluster may
differ from the actual distance of the
object. Make sure to directly check the
vehicle's surroundings for safety.
- If the camera lens is covered with foreign material, Blind-Spot View Monitor may not operate normally.
Always keep the camera lens clean.
However, do not use chemical solvents such as strong detergents containing high alkaline or volatile
organic solvents (gasoline, acetone
etc.). This may damage the camera
lens.
Surround View Monitor (SVM)
Surround View Monitor (SVM)
(if equipped)
Surround View Monitor can assist in
parking by allowing the driver to see
around the vehicle.
Detecting sensor
1: Wide-front view camera
2, 3: Wide-side view camera (under the
side view mirror)
4: Wide-rear view camera
Refer to the picture above for the
detailed location of the detecting sensors.

--- Page 385 ---
Driver assistance system
Surround View Monitor settings
Warning Methods
A: Driver Assistance
1 Warning Methods
The Warning Methods can be set with
the vehicle on. Select Setup → Vehicle
→ Driver Assistance → Warning Methods from the settings menu in the infotainment system to change the following
settings:
- Parking Safety Priority: Lowers al
other audio volumes when Surround
View Monitor is active is active.
INFORMATION
- If you change the Warning Methods, it
can be applied to each function of the
driver assistance system. Please
check and change it in each function.
- If the vehicle is restarted, Warning
Methods will maintain the last setting.
- The setting menu may not exist based
on vehicle specification.
Camera settings
With the vehicle on, select the setup icon
( ) on the screen or Settings → Vehicle
Surround View Monitor (SVM)
→ Driver Assistance → Parking Safety
→ Camera settings from the infotainment system screen to change the Rear
View Monitor settings.
- Display Contents: To change the settings of Top view parking guidance,
Parking guide in rear view, and
Parking distance warning function.
- Display Settings: To change the
screen's brightness and contrast.
Top View Parking Guidance
Front top view
Rear top view
Parking guidance is displayed on the
right side of the Surround View Monitor
screen when the Front or Rear Top
View Parking Guidance is selected.
Rear View Parking Guidance
Rear view parking guidance is displayed
in the rear view when the Parking guide
in rear view is selected.

--- Page 386 ---
Driver assistance system NOTICE
The horizontal guideline of the Rear
View Parking Guidance shows the distance of 1.6 ft. (0.5 m), 3.3 ft. (1 m) and
7.6 ft. (2.3 m) from the vehicle.
Parking Distance Warning
Parking distance warning is displayed on
the right side of the Surround View Monitor top view screen when the Parking
distance warning is selected.
Surround View Monitor Auto On
With the vehicle on, select Settings →
Vehicle → Driver Assistance→ Parking
Safety → Surround View Monitor Auto
On from the infotainment system screen
to use the function.
NOTICE
For more details on Surround View Monitor Auto On, refer to "Surround View
Monitor Auto On" on page 6-93.
Surround View Monitor operation
Parking/View button
Press the Parking/View button (1) to turn
on or off Surround View Monitor.
Surround View Monitor (SVM)
Front view
Front view function is displayed on the
screen when the gear is in N (Neutral) or
D (Drive) to assist in parking. The front
view has a top view, front view, side view
and 3D view. Also, other view modes can
be selected by pressing the view icons
(2) on the Surround View Monitor
screen.
Operating conditions
Front view function will turn on when the
following conditions are satisfied:
- Shifting from R (Reverse) to N (Neutral) or D (Drive) and the vehicle speed
is below approximately 6 mph (10 km/
h).
- Pressing the Parking/View button (1)
when the gear is in D (Drive) or N
(Neutral) and vehicle speed is below 6
mph (10 km/h).
- Forward Parking Distance Warning
warns the driver while driving in D
(Drive) (Driver Assistance → Parking
Safety → Surround View Monitor
Auto On selected from the Settings
menu)
Off conditions
Front view function will turn off when
the following conditions are satisfied:
- Press the Parking/View button (1) or
the infotainment system button (3).
- When vehicle speed is above 6 mph
(10 km/h).

--- Page 387 ---
Driver assistance system
- Press one of the infotainment system
button (3), the screen will change to
the infotainment system screen.
- Shifting to P (Park).
NOTICE
If Surround View Monitor is turned off
after driving more than 6 mph (10 km/
h), driving below 6 mph (10 km/h) again
will not switch to the Surround View
Monitor screen.
Rear view
Rear view function is displayed on the
screen when the gear is in R (Reverse) or
P (Park) to assist in parking. The rear
view has a top view, rear view, side view
and 3D view. Also, other view modes can
be selected by pressing the view icons
on the Surround View Monitor screen.
Operating conditions
Rear view function will turn on when the
following conditions are satisfied:
- Shifting to R (Reverse).
- Pressing the Parking/View button (1)
when P (Park) gear position is
selected.
Off conditions
Rear view function will turn off when the
following conditions are satisfied:
- Shifting from R (Reverse) to P (Park).
- Pressing the Parking/View button (1)
when P (Park) gear position is
selected.
NOTICE
Pressing the infotainment system button
(3) will not turn the rear view off when
the gear is in R (Reverse).
Surround View Monitor (SVM)
3D view function
3D view function shows the vehicle in
various angles. Press the 3D view icon
on the Surround View Monitor screen to
choose the angle. Press the 3D view icon
again to reset the angle.
Operating conditions
3D view function will turn on when the
following conditions are satisfied:
- Shifting to P (Park), N (Neutral) or D
(Drive) and the vehicle speed is below
6 mph (10 km/h).
- When shifting to R (Reverse) and Surround View Monitor is on, Press 3D
view icon on the Surround View Monitor screen.
Off conditions
3D view function will turn off when the
following conditions are satisfied:
- Vehicle in P (Park), N (Neutral) or D
(Drive)
- Shifting to P (Park)
- Pressing the Parking/View button
(1)
- Pressing the infotainment screen
button (3)
- Pressing the home button on the
Surround View Monitor screen (2)
- Vehicle speed is above 6 mph (10
km/h)
- Vehicle in R (Reverse)
- Shifting to P (Park)
NOTICE
3D view function does not display the
parking guide.

--- Page 388 ---
Driver assistance system Surround View Monitor (SVM)
Surround View Monitor malfunction and limitations
Surround View Monitor malfunction
When Surround View Monitor is not
working properly, or the screen flickers,
or the camera image does not display
normally, have the vehicle inspected by
an authorized Kia dealer.
Limitations of Surround View
Monitor
- The screen may be displayed abnormally, and an icon will appear at the
top left side of the screen under the
following circumstances:
- The liftgate is opened.
- The driver or front passenger door
is opened.
- The outside rear view mirror is
folded.
vents such as strong detergents containing high alkaline or volatile
organic solvents (gasoline, acetone
etc.). This may damage the camera
lens.
WARNING
- ALWAYS look around your vehicle to
make sure there are no objects or
obstacles before moving the vehicle.
What you see on the screen may differ from the actual vehicle's location.
- The image shown on the screen may
differ from the actual distance of the
object. Make sure to directly check the
vehicle's surroundings for safety.
- Surround View Monitor is designed to
be used on a flat surface. Therefore, if
used on roads with different heights
such as curbs and speed bumps, the
image in the screen my not look correct.
- If the camera lens is covered with foreign material, the Surround View
Monitor may not operate normally.
Always keep the camera lens clean.
However, do not use chemical sol-

--- Page 389 ---
Driver assistance system
Rear Cross-Traffic Collision-Avoidance Assist (RCCA)
Rear Cross-Traffic Collision-
Avoidance Assist (RCCA) (if
equipped)
Rear Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance
Assist is designed to help detect vehicles
approaching from blind spot area while
your vehicle is reversing, and warn the
driver that a collision is imminent with a
warning message and an audible warning. Also, braking is assisted to help prevent collision.
NOTICE
For more details on the precautions of
the rear corner radar, refer to "Blind-
Spot collision-Avoidance Assist (BCA) (if
equipped)" on page 6-31.
Rear Cross-Traffic Collision-
Avoidance Assist settings
Rear Cross-Traffic Safety
[A]: Rear Cross-Traffic collision Warning
operating range
[B]: Rear Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance Assist operating range
CAUTION
The time of warning may vary depending on vehicle speed of the approaching
vehicle.
Detecting sensor
Rear corner radar
A: Driver Assistance
1 Parking Safety
2 Rear cross-traffic safety
With the vehicle on, select Driver Assistance → Parking Safety → Rear Cross-
Traffic Safety from the Settings menu
to turn on Rear Cross-Traffic collision-
Avoidance Assist and deselect to turn off
the function.
WARNING
Refer to the picture above for the
detailed location of the detecting sensor.
When the vehicle is restarted, Rear
Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance Assist
will automatically turn on. However, if
Off is selected after the vehicle is
restarted, the driver should always be
aware of the surroundings and drive
safely.

--- Page 390 ---
Driver assistance system Rear Cross-Traffic Collision-Avoidance Assist (RCCA)
Warning Timing
Warning Methods
Type A
Type B
A: Driver Assistance
1 Warning Timing
2 Standard
3 Late
With the vehicle on, select Driver Assistance → Warning Timing from the Settings menu to change the initial warning
activation time for Rear Cross-Traffic
collision-Avoidance Assist.
When the vehicle is first delivered, Warning Timing is set to Standard. If you
change the Warning Timing, the warning
time of other Driver Assistance systems
may change.
NOTICE
- Even though Standard is selected for
Warning Timing, if the vehicles from
the blind spot area approaches at
high speed, the initial warning activation time may seem late.
- Select Late for Warning Timing when
traffic is light and when driving speed
is slow.
A: Driver Assistance
1 Warning Methods
The Warning Methods can be set with
the vehicle on. Select User Settings →
Driver Assistance → Warning Methods
from the settings menu in the instrument cluster or Setup → Vehicle →
Driver Assistance → Warning Methods
from the settings menu in the infotainment system to change the following
settings:
- Warning Volume: Adjusts the volume
of the warning sound.
- Haptic Warning: Activate the steering wheel vibration warning. (if
equipped)
INFORMATION
- If you change the Warning Methods, it
can be applied to each function of the
driver assistance system. Please
check and change it in each function.
- If the vehicle is restarted, Warning
Methods will maintain the last setting.

--- Page 391 ---
Driver assistance system
Rear Cross-Traffic Collision-Avoidance Assist (RCCA)
- The setting menu may not exist based
on vehicle specification.
Rear Cross-Traffic Collision-
Avoidance Assist operation
Rear Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance
Assist will warn and control the vehicle
depending on collision level
- collision Warning
- Emergency Braking
- Stopping vehicle and ending brake
control
Collision Warning
Monitor is operating, a warning will
also appear on the infotainment system screen. (if equipped)
- Rear Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance Assist will operate when all the
following conditions are satisfied:
- The gear is shifted to R (Reverse)
and the vehicle speed is below 5
mph (8 km/h)
- The approaching vehicle is within
approximately 82 ft. (25 m) from
the blind spot area of your vehicle
- The speed of the vehicle approaching from the blind spot area is
above 3 mph (5 km/h)
NOTICE
If the operating conditions are satisfied,
there will be a warning whenever the
vehicle approaches from the left or right
side even though your vehicle speed is 0
mph (0 km/h).
Emergency Braking
- To warn the driver of an approaching
vehicle from the rear left/right side of
your vehicle, the warning light on the
outside rear view mirror will blink, and
a warning will appear on the cluster.
At the same time, an audible warning
will sound and the steering wheel will
vibrate (if equipped). If the Rear View

--- Page 392 ---
Driver assistance system Rear Cross-Traffic Collision-Avoidance Assist (RCCA)
- The approaching vehicle speed slows
down
- The driver depresses the brake pedal
with sufficient power
A: Emergency Braking
- To warn the driver of an approaching
vehicle from the rear left/right side of
your vehicle, the warning light on the
outside rear view mirror will blink, and
a warning message will appear on the
cluster. At the same time, an audible
warning will sound and the steering
wheel will vibrate (if equipped). If the
Rear View Monitor is operating, a
warning will also appear on the infotainment system screen. (if equipped)
- Rear Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance Assist will operate when all the
following conditions are satisfied:
- The gear is shifted to R (Reverse)
and the vehicle speed is below 5
mph (8 km/h)
- The approaching vehicle is within
approximately 5 ft. (1.5 m) from the
blind spot area of your vehicle
- The speed of the vehicle approaching from the left and right is above
3 mph (5 km/h)
- Emergency Braking will be assisted to
help prevent collision with approaching vehicles from the blind spot area.
Stopping vehicle and ending
brake control
A: Drive carefully
- When the vehicle is stopped due to
emergency braking, the warning message will appear on the cluster. For
your safety, the driver should depress
the brake pedal immediately and
check the surroundings.
- Brake control will end after the
vehicle is stopped by emergency
braking for approximately 2 seconds.
- During emergency braking, braking
control by the function will automatically cancel when the driver
excessively depresses the brake
pedal.
WARNING
WARNING
Brake control will end:
- The approaching vehicle is out of the
detecting range
- The approaching vehicle passes
behind your vehicle
- The approaching vehicle does not
drive toward your vehicle
Take the following precautions when
using Rear Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance Assist:
- For your safety, set the Settings after
parking the vehicle at a safe location.
- If any other function's warning message is displayed or audible warning
is generated, Rear Cross-Traffic
Safety function's warning message

--- Page 393 ---
Driver assistance system
Rear Cross-Traffic Collision-Avoidance Assist (RCCA)
may not be displayed and audible
warning may not be generated.
- You may not hear the warning sound
of Rear Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance Assist if the surroundings are
noisy.
- Rear Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance Assist may not operate if the
driver applies the brake pedal to avoid
collision.
- During Rear Cross-Traffic Safety
Function Operation, the vehicle may
stop suddenly injuring passengers
and shifting loose objects. Always
have the seat belt on and keep loose
objects secured.
- Even if there is a problem with Rear
Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance
Assist, the vehicle's basic braking performance will operate normally.
- Rear Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance Assist does not operate in all situations or cannot avoid all collisions.
- When Rear Cross-Traffic collision-
Avoidance Assist is operating, braking
control by the function will automatically cancel when the driver excessively depresses the accelerator
pedal.
- Rear Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance Assist may warn the driver late
or may not warn the driver depending
on the road and driving conditions.
- The driver should hold the responsibility to control the vehicle. Do not
solely depend on Rear Cross-Traffic
collision-Avoidance Assist. Rather,
maintain a safe braking distance, and
if necessary, depress the brake pedal
to reduce driving speed or to stop the
vehicle.
- Never deliberately operate Rear
Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance
Assist on people, animal, objects, etc.
It may cause serious injury or death.
CAUTION
The brake control may not operate
properly depending on the status of ESC
(Electronic Stability Control).
There will only be a warning when:
- The ESC (Electronic Stability Control)
warning light is on
- ESC (Electronic Stability Control) is
engaged in a different function
NOTICE
If braking is assisted by Rear Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance Assist, the driver
must immediately depress the brake
pedal and check vehicle surroundings.
- Brake control will end when the driver
depresses the brake pedal with sufficient power.
- After shifting the gear to R (Reverse),
braking control will operate once for
left and right vehicle approach.
NOTICE
The images or colors may be displayed
differently depending on the specifications of the instrument cluster or theme.

--- Page 394 ---
Driver assistance system Rear Cross-Traffic Collision-Avoidance Assist (RCCA)
Rear Cross-Traffic Collision-
Avoidance Assist malfunction
and limitations
Rear Cross-Traffic Collision-
Avoidance Assist malfunction
Rear Cross-Traffic Collision-
Avoidance Assist disabled
A: Check Rear Cross-Traffic Safety
system
When Rear Cross-Traffic collision-
Avoidance Assist is not working properly, the warning message will appear
and the master warning light ( ) will
appear on the cluster. Have the function
be inspected by an authorized Kia
dealer.
A: Rear Cross-Traffic Safety system
disabled. Radar blocked
When the rear bumper around the rear
corner radar or rear sensor is covered
with foreign material, such as snow or
rain, or installing a trailer or carrier, it can
reduce the detecting performance and
temporarily limit or disable Rear Cross-
Traffic collision-Avoidance Assist.
If this occurs, the warning message will
appear on the cluster. But it is not a Rear
Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance Assist
malfunction.
The function will operate normally when
such foreign material or trailer, etc. is
removed. Always keep it clean.
If the function does not operate normally
after it is removed, have the function
inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.
A: Check side view mirror warning
light
When the outside rear view mirror warning light is not working properly, the
warning message will appear and the
master warning light ( ) will appear on
the cluster. Have the function be
inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.
WARNING
- Even though the warning message or
warning light does not appear on the
cluster, Rear Cross-Traffic collision-
Avoidance Assist may not operate
properly.
- Rear Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance Assist may not operate properly
in an area or contaminated (for example: open terrain), where any substance are not detected after turning
ON the vehicle.

--- Page 395 ---
Driver assistance system
Rear Cross-Traffic Collision-Avoidance Assist (RCCA)
CAUTION
WARNING
Turn off Rear Cross-Traffic collision-
Avoidance Assist to install a trailer, carrier, etc., or remove the trailer, carrier,
etc. to use Rear Cross-Traffic collision-
Avoidance Assist.
- Driving near a vehicle or structure
Limitations of Rear Cross-Traffic
Collision-Avoidance Assist
Rear Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance
Assist may not operate normally, or the
function may operate unexpectedly
under the following circumstances:
- Departing from where trees or grass
are overgrown
- Departing from where roads are wet
- Speed of the approaching vehicle is
fast or slow
Braking control may not work, driver's
attention is required in the following circumstances:
- The vehicle severely vibrates while
driving over a bumpy road, uneven
road or concrete patch
- Driving on a slippery surface due to
snow, water puddle, ice, etc.
- The tire pressure is low or a tire is
damaged
- The brake is reworked
[A]: Structure
Rear Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance Assist may be limited when driving near a vehicle or structure, and
may not detect the vehicle approaching from the blind spot area. If this
occurs, the function may not warn the
driver or control the brakes when necessary.
Always check your surroundings while
Reversing.
- When the vehicle is in a complex
parking environment
NOTICE
For more details on the limitations of the
rear corner radar, refer to "Blind-Spot
collision-Avoidance Assist (BCA) (if
equipped)" on page 6-31.
Rear Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance Assist may detect vehicles which
are parking or pulling out near your
vehicle (for example: a vehicle leaving
beside your vehicle, a vehicle parking
or pulling out in the rear area, a vehicle approaching your vehicle making
a turn, etc.). If this occurs, the function
may unnecessarily warn the driver
and control the brake.
Always check your surroundings while
Reversing.

--- Page 396 ---
Driver assistance system Rear Cross-Traffic Collision-Avoidance Assist (RCCA)
- When the vehicle is parked diagonally
- pulling into the parking space where
there is a structure
[A]: Vehicle
Rear Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance Assist may be limited when
Reversing diagonally, and may not
detect the vehicle approaching from
the blind spot area. If this occurs, the
function may not warn the driver or
control the brakes when necessary.
Always check your surroundings while
Reversing.
- When the vehicle is on or near a slope
[A]: Structure, [B]: Wall
Rear Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance Assist may detect vehicles passing by in front of you when parking
backwards into a parking space with a
wall or structure in the rear or side
area. If this occurs, the function may
unnecessarily warn the driver and
control the brake.
Always check your surroundings while
Reversing.
- When the vehicle is parked rearward
Rear Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance Assist may be limited when the
vehicle is on a uphill or downhill slope,
or near it, and may not detect the
vehicle approaching from the blind
spot area. If this occurs, the function
may not warn the driver or control the
brakes when necessary.
Always check your surroundings while
Reversing.
Rear Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance Assist may detect vehicles passing by behind you when parking
backwards into a parking space. If this
occurs, the function may unnecessarily warn the driver and control the
brake.
Always check your surroundings while
Reversing.

--- Page 397 ---
Driver assistance system
WARNING
- When you are towing a trailer or
another vehicle, do not use Rear
Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance
Assist. The function could destabilize
the vehicle.
- Rear Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance Assist may not operate suddenly
if interfered by strong electromagnetic waves.
- Rear Cross-Traffic collision-Avoidance Assist may not operate for 15
seconds after the vehicle is started, or
the rear corner radars are initialized.
This device complies with Part 15
of the FCC rules.
Operation is subject to the following two
conditions:
1. This device may not cause harmful
interference, and
2.This device must accept any interference received, including interference
that may cause undesired operation.
Reverse Parking Distance Warning (PDW)
Reverse Parking Distance
Warning (PDW) (if equipped)
Reverse Parking Distance Warning will
help warn the driver if a person, an animal or an object is detected within a certain distance when the vehicle is moving
in reverse.
Detecting sensor
Rear ultrasonic sensors
Refer to the picture above for the
detailed location of the detecting sensors.
Reverse Parking Distance Warning settings
Warning Methods
Type A
Type B

--- Page 398 ---
Driver assistance system A: Driver Assistance
1 Warning Methods
The Warning Methods can be set with
the vehicle on. Select User Settings →
Driver Assistance → Warning Methods
from the settings menu in the instrument cluster or Setup → Vehicle →
Driver Assistance → Warning Methods
from the settings menu in the infotainment system to change the following
settings:
- Warning Volume: Adjusts the volume
of the warning sound.
INFORMATION
- If you change the Warning Methods, it
can be applied to each function of the
driver assistance system. Please
check and change it in each function.
- If the vehicle is restarted, Warning
Methods will maintain the last setting.
- The setting menu may not exist based
on vehicle specification.
Reverse Parking Distance Warning operation
Parking Safety button (if
equipped)
Press the Parking Safety ( ) button to
turn on or off Reverse Parking Distance
Warning.
- When Reverse Parking Distance
Warning is off (button indicator light
off), if you shift the gear to R
Reverse Parking Distance Warning (PDW)
(Reverse), Reverse Parking Distance
Warning will automatically turn on.
- If you shift the gear to R (Reverse),
Reverse Parking Distance Warning
will not turn off even if you press the
Parking Safety ( ) button for your
safety.
Reverse Parking Distance Warning
Reverse Parking Distance Warning will
operate under the following conditions.
- Shift the gear to R (Reverse).
- The vehicle's speed is below 6 mph
(10 km/h).
Warning indication and warning
sound
Distance from
object
Warning indicator
when driving backward
Warning sound
24~48 inches
(60~120 cm)
Buzzer beeps intermittently
12~24 inches
(30~60 cm)
Beeps more frequently
within 12 inches (30
cm) Beeps continuously
- The corresponding indicator will
appear on the cluster or infotainment
system whenever each ultrasonic sensor detects a person, animal or object
in its sensing range. Also an audible
warning will sound.
- When more than two objects are
detected at the same time, the closest
one will be warned with an audible
warning.

--- Page 399 ---
Driver assistance system
- Distance from object may be detected
differently when obstacles are not
located in front of the sensor.
- The shape of the indicator in the illustration may differ from the actual
vehicle.
Reverse Parking Distance Warning malfunction and precautions
Reverse Parking Distance Warning malfunction
After starting the vehicle, a beep will
sound once when the gear is shifted to R
(Reverse) to indicate Reverse Parking
Distance Warning is operating normally.
However, if one or more of the following
occurs, first check whether the ultrasonic sensor is damaged or blocked with
foreign material. If it still does not work
properly, have the vehicle inspected by
an authorized Kia dealer.
- The audible warning does not sound.
- The buzzer sounds sporadically.
- The warning message appears on the
cluster.
A: Ultrasonic sensor error or blockage
Limitations of Reverse Parking
Distance Warning
- Reverse Parking Distance Warning
may not operate normally when:
- Moisture is frozen to the sensor
(Reverse Parking Distance Warning will operate normally when it is
melted.)
Reverse Parking Distance Warning (PDW)
- Sensor is covered with foreign
material, such as snow or water
(Reverse Parking Distance Warning will operate normally when
such foreign material are removed.)
- The weather is extremely hot or
cold
- The sensor or sensor assembly is
disassembled
- The surface of the sensor is
pressed hard or an impact is
applied with a hard object
- The surface of the sensor is
scratched with a sharp object
- The sensors or its surrounding area
is directly sprayed with high pressure washer
- Reverse Parking Distance Warning
may malfunction when:
- Heavy rain or water spray is present
- Water flows on the surface of the
sensor
- Affected by another vehicle's sensors
- The sensor is covered with snow
- Driving on uneven roads, through
gravel roads or bushes
- Objects that generates ultrasonic
waves are near the sensor
- installing the license plate differently from the original location
- The vehicle bumper height or ultrasonic sensor installation has been
modified
- Attaching equipment or accessories
around the ultrasonic sensors
- The following objects may not be
detected:
- Sharp or slim objects, such as
ropes, chains or small poles.

--- Page 400 ---
Driver assistance system Forward/Reverse Parking Distance Warning (PDW)
- Objects, which tend to absorb sensor frequency, such as clothes,
spongy material or snow.
- Objects smaler than 40 inches
(100 cm) in length and narrower
than 6 inches (14 cm) in diameter.
- Pedestrians, animals or objects that
are very close to the ultrasonic sensors
WARNING
Forward/Reverse Parking Distance Warning (PDW) (if
equipped)
Forward/Reverse Parking Distance
Warning will help warn the driver if a
person, an animal or an object is
detected within a certain distance from
the ultrasonic sensors when the vehicle
is moving forward or in reverse.
Detecting sensor
Front ultrasonic sensors
- Reverse Parking Distance Warning is
a supplemental function. The operation of Reverse Parking Distance
Warning can be affected by several
factors (including environmental conditions). It is the responsibility of the
driver to always check the rear view
before and while parking.
- Your vehicle warranty does not cover
any accidents or damage to the vehicle due to the malfunction of Reverse
Parking Distance Warning.
- Pay close attention when driving near
objects, pedestrians, and especially
children. Some objects may not be
detected by the ultrasonic sensors,
due to the objects distance, size or
material, all of which can limit the
effectiveness of the sensor.
- Parking Distance Warning indicator
may not occur sequentially depending
on vehicle speed or obstacle shape.
- If Reverse Parking Distance Warning
needs repair, have the vehicle
inspected by an authorized Kia dealer.
Rear ultrasonic sensors
Refer to the picture above for the
detailed location of the detecting sensors.

--- Page 401 ---
Driver assistance system
Forward/Reverse Parking Distance Warning (PDW)
Forward/Reverse Parking Distance Warning settings
Warning Methods
Type A
- The setting menu may not exist based
on vehicle specification.
Parking Distance Warning Auto
On
You can set the Parking Distance Warning to be ON at low speeds. To use Parking Distance Warning Auto On function,
select Driver Assistance → Parking
Safety → Parking Distance Warning
Auto On from the Settings menu.
NOTICE
Type B
If Parking Distance Warning Auto On is
selected, the Parking Safety ( ) button
indicator light will turn on.
Forward/Reverse Parking Distance Warning operation
Parking Safety button
A: Driver Assistance
1 Warning Methods
The Warning Methods can be set with
the vehicle on. Select User Settings →
Driver Assistance → Warning Methods
from the settings menu in the instrument cluster or Setup → Vehicle →
Driver Assistance → Warning Methods
from the settings menu in the infotainment system to change the following
settings:
- Warning Volume: Adjusts the volume
of the warning sound.
INFORMATION
- If you change the Warning Methods, it
can be applied to each function of the
driver assistance system. Please
check and change it in each function.
- If the vehicle is restarted, Warning
Methods will maintain the last setting.
Press the Parking Safety ( ) button to
turn on or off Forward/Reverse Parking
Distance Warning.
- When Forward/Reverse Parking Distance Warning is off (button indicator
light off), if you shift the gear to R
(Reverse), Forward/Reverse Parking
Distance Warning will automatically
turn on.
- If you shift the gear to R (Reverse),
Forward/Reverse Parking Distance
Warning will not turn off even if you
press the Parking Safety ( ) button
for your safety.

--- Page 402 ---
Driver assistance system Forward/Reverse Parking Distance Warning (PDW)
Forward Parking Distance Warning
Forward Parking Distance Warning will
operate when one of the following conditions are satisfied:
- The gear is shifted from R (Reverse)
to D (Drive)
- The gear is in D (Drive) and the Parking Safety ( ) button indicator light is
on
- Parking Distance Warning Auto On
is selected from the Settings menu
and the gear is in D (Drive)
- The function warns the driver when
Settings → Vehicle → Driver Assistance → Parking Safety → Parking
Distance Warning Auto On is
selected from the infotainment system, and the gear is in D (Drive)
- Vehicle speed is below 6 mph (10 km/
h)
On' is not selected from the infotainment system)
Warning indication and warning
sound
Distance from
object
Warning indicator
when driving forward
Warning sound
24~40 inches
(60~100 cm)
Buzzer beeps intermittently
ONQ50
12~24 inches
(30~60 cm)
Beeps more frequently
ONQ50
within 12 inches (30
cm) Beeps continuously
ONQ50
NOTICE
- Forward Parking Distance Warning
does not operate when the vehicle's
forward speed is above 6 mph (10
km/h) even when the function is on
(Parking Safety button indicator is on).
Forward Parking Distance Warning
will operate again when the vehicle's
forward speed decreases below 6
mph (10 km/h).
- When the vehicle's forward speed is
above 18 mph (30 km/h), the Forward
Parking Distance Warning will turn off
(Parking Safety button indicator off).
Although you drive below 6 mph (10
km/h) again, Forward Parking Distance Warning will not automatically
turn on. ('Settings' → 'Vehicle' →
'Driver Assistance' → 'Parking Safety'
→ 'Parking Distance Warning Auto
- The corresponding indicator will
appear on the cluster or infotainment
system screen whenever each ultrasonic sensor detects a person, animal
or object in its sensing range. Also an
audible warning will sound.
- When more than two objects are
detected at the same time, the closest
one will be warned with an audible
warning.
- Distance from object may be detected
differently when obstacles are not
located in front of the sensor.
- The shape of the indicator in the illustration may differ from the actual
vehicle.
Reverse Parking Distance Warning
Reverse Parking Distance Warning will
operate when one of the following conditions are satisfied:
- The gear is shifted to R (Reverse).

--- Page 403 ---
Driver assistance system
Forward/Reverse Parking Distance Warning (PDW)
- The vehicle's rearward speed is below
6 mph (10 km/h).
NOTICE
When the vehicle's rearward speed is
below 6 mph (10 km/h), both the front
and rear ultrasonic sensors will detect
objects. However, the front ultrasonic
sensors can detect a person, animal or
object when it is within 24 inches (60
cm) from the sensors.
Warning indication and warning
sound
Distance from
object
Warning indicator
when driving backward
Warning sound
24~48 inches
(60~120 cm)
Buzzer beeps intermittently
12~24 inches
(30~60 cm)
Beeps more frequently
- The shape of the indicator in the illustration may differ from the actual
vehicle.
Forward/Reverse Parking Distance Warning malfunction and
precautions
Forward/Reverse Parking Distance Warning malfunction
After starting the vehicle, a beep will
sound once when the gear is shifted to R
(Reverse) to indicate Forward/Reverse
Parking Distance Warning is operating
normally.
However, if one or more of the following
occurs, first check whether the ultrasonic sensor is damaged or blocked with
foreign material. If it still does not work
properly, have the vehicle inspected by
an authorized Kia dealer.
- The audible warning does not sound.
- The buzzer sounds sporadically.
- The warning message appears on the
cluster.
within 12 inches (30
cm) Beeps continuously
- The corresponding indicator will
appear on the cluster or infotainment
system screen whenever each ultrasonic sensor detects a person, animal
or object in its sensing range. Also an
audible warning will sound.
- When more than two objects are
detected at the same time, the closest
one will be warned with an audible
warning.
- Distance from object may be detected
differently when obstacles are not
located in front of the sensor.
A: Ultrasonic sensor error or blockage
Limitations of Forward/Reverse
Parking Distance Warning
- Forward/Reverse Parking Distance
Warning may not operate normally
when:
- Moisture is frozen to the sensor
(Forward/Reverse Parking Distance Warning will operate normally when it is melted.)

--- Page 404 ---
Driver assistance system Forward/Reverse Parking Distance Warning (PDW)
- Sensor is covered with foreign
material, such as snow or water
(Forward/Reverse Parking Distance Warning will operate normally when such foreign material
are removed.)
- The weather is extremely hot or
cold
- The sensor or sensor assembly is
disassembled
- The surface of the sensor is
pressed hard or an impact is
applied with a hard object
- The surface of the sensor is
scratched with a sharp object
- The sensors or its surrounding area
is directly sprayed with high pressure washer
- Forward/Reverse Parking Distance
Warning may malfunction when:
- Heavy rain or water spray is present
- Water flows on the surface of the
sensor
- Affected by another vehicle's sensors
- The sensor is covered with snow
- Driving on uneven roads, through
gravel roads or bushes
- Objects that generates ultrasonic
waves are near the sensor
- installing the license plate differently from the original location
- The vehicle bumper height or ultrasonic sensor installation has been
modified
- Attaching equipment or accessories
around the ultrasonic sensors
- The following objects may not be
detected:
- Sharp or slim objects, such as
ropes, chains or small poles.
- Objects, which tend to absorb sensor frequency, such as clothes,
spongy material or snow.
- Objects smaler than 40 inches
(100 cm) in length and narrower
than 6 inches (14 cm) in diameter.
- Pedestrians, animals or objects that
are very close to the ultrasonic sensors
WARNING
- Forward/Reverse Parking Distance
Warning is a supplemental function.
The operation of Forward/Reverse
Parking Distance Warning can be
affected by several factors (including
environmental conditions). It is the
responsibility of the driver to always
check the front and rear views before
and while parking.
- Your vehicle warranty does not cover
any accidents or damage to the vehicle due to the malfunction of Forward/Reverse Parking Distance
Warning.
- Pay close attention when driving near
objects, pedestrians, and especially
children. Some objects may not be
detected by the ultrasonic sensors,
due to the objects distance, size or
material, all of which can limit the
effectiveness of the sensor.
- Parking Distance Warning indicator
may not occur sequentially depending
on vehicle speed or obstacle shape.
- If Forward/Reverse Parking Distance
Warning needs repair, have the vehicle inspected by an authorized Kia
dealer.

--- Page 405 ---
Driver assistance system
Reverse Parking Collision-
Avoidance Assist (PCA) (if
equipped)
Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance
Assist may warn the driver or assist with
braking to help reduce the possibility of
collision with a pedestrian or an object
when Reversing.
Detecting sensor
Wide-rear view camera
Rear ultrasonic sensors
Refer to the picture above for the
detailed location of the detecting sensors.
Reverse Parking Collision-Avoidance Assist (PCA)
Reverse Parking Collision-Avoidance Assist settings
Parking Safety
A: Driver Assistance
1 Parking Safety
2 Rear Active Assist
3 Rear Warning Only
4 Off
With the vehicle on, select or deselect
Driver Assistance → Parking Safety
from the Settings menu to set whether
or not to use each function.
- Rear Active Assist: Reverse Parking
collision-Avoidance Assist will warn
the driver and assist with braking
when a collision with a pedestrian or
an object is imminent.
- Rear Warning Only: Reverse Parking
collision-Avoidance Assist will warn
the driver when a collision with a
pedestrian or an object is imminent.
Braking will not be assisted.
- Off: Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance Assist will turn off.

--- Page 406 ---
Driver assistance system Turning On/Off
Press and hold the Parking Safety ( )
button for more than 2 seconds to turn
Rear Active Assist or Rear Warning Only
on or off.
Warning Methods
Type A
Type B
A: Driver Assistance
1 Warning Methods
The Warning Methods can be set with
the vehicle on. Select User Settings →
Driver Assistance → Warning Methods
from the settings menu in the instrument cluster or Setup → Vehicle →
Driver Assistance → Warning Methods
from the settings menu in the infotainment system to change the following
settings:
Reverse Parking Collision-Avoidance Assist (PCA)
- Warning Volume: Adjusts the volume
of the warning sound.
- Haptic Warning: Activate the steering wheel vibration warning. (if
equipped)
INFORMATION
- If you change the Warning Methods, it
can be applied to each function of the
driver assistance system. Please
check and change it in each function.
- If the vehicle is restarted, Warning
Methods will maintain the last setting.
- The setting menu may not exist based
on vehicle specification.
Reverse Parking Collision-Avoidance Assist operation
Operating conditions
After selecting Active assistance or
Warning Only from the Settings menu,
Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance
Assist will turn on when the following
conditions are satisfied:
- The liftgate is closed
- The gear is shifted to R (Reverse)
- Vehicle speed is below 6 mph (10 km/
h) (For pedestrians)
- Vehicle speed is below 2 mph (4 km/
h) (For objects)
- Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance
Assist components such as the rear
view camera and the rear ultrasonic
sensors are in normal conditions
When Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance Assist activates, a line appears
behind the vehicle image in the instrument cluster.

--- Page 407 ---
Driver assistance system
NOTICE
Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance
Assist operates only once after the gear
is shifted to R (Reverse). To reactivate
Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance
Assist, shift the gear from another gear
to R (Reverse).
Rear Collision-Avoidance Assist
If Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance
Assist detects a risk of collision with a
pedestrian or an object, Reverse Parking
collision-Avoidance Assist will warn the
driver with an audible warning and
warning message on the cluster. When
Rear View Monitor is operating, a warning will appear on the infotainment system screen. The warning will turn off
when the driver shifts the gear to P
(Park), N (Neutral), or D (Drive).
If Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance
Assist detects an imminent collision with
a pedestrian or an object behind the
vehicle, Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance Assist will assist you with braking.
The driver needs to pay attention as the
brake assist will end within 5 minutes.
Brake control will also end when:
- The gear is shifted to P (Park) or D
(Drive).
- The driver depresses the brake pedal
with sufficient power.
Reverse Parking Collision-Avoidance Assist (PCA)
NOTICE
If braking assist has lasted for approximately 5 minutes, the Electronic Parking
Brake EPB will be engaged simultaneously.
Rear Collision Warning
If Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance
Assist detects a risk of collision with a
pedestrian or an object, Reverse Parking
collision-Avoidance Assist will warn the
driver with an audible warning and
warning message on the cluster. When
Rear View Monitor is operating, a warning will appear on the infotainment system screen. Braking will not be assisted.
The warning will turn off when the gear
is shifted to P (Park), N (Neutral) or D
(Drive).
Reverse Parking Collision-Avoidance Assist malfunction and limitations
Reverse Parking Collision-Avoidance Assist malfunction
A: Check Parking Safety system
When Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance Assist or other related functions
are not working properly, the warning
message will appear on the cluster, and
Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance
Assist will turn off automatically.
Have your vehicle inspected by an
authorized Kia dealer.

--- Page 408 ---
Driver assistance system Reverse Parking Collision-Avoidance Assist disabled
Wide-rear view camera
The rear view camera is used as a
detecting sensor to detect pedestrians. If
the camera lens is covered with foreign
material, such as snow or rain, it may
adversely affect camera performance
and Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance Assist may not operate normally.
Always keep the camera lens clean.
Rear ultrasonic sensors
The rear ultrasonic sensors are located
inside the rear bumper to detect objects
in the rear area. If the sensors are covered with foreign material, such as snow
or rain, it may adversely affect sensor
performance and Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance Assist may not operate
normally. Always keep the rear bumper
clean.
The warning message will appear on the
cluster if the following situations occur:
Reverse Parking Collision-Avoidance Assist (PCA)
Wide-rear view camera
A: Camera error or blockage
Rear ultrasonic sensors
A: Ultrasonic sensor error or blockage
- The rear view camera or rear ultrasonic sensor(s) is covered with foreign
material, such as snow or rain, etc.
- There is inclement weather, such as
heavy snow, heavy rain, etc.
If this occurs, Reverse Parking collision-
Avoidance Assist may turn off or may
not operate properly. Check whether the
rear view camera and rear ultrasonic
sensors are clean.
Limitations of Reverse Parking
Collision-Avoidance Assist
Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance
Assist may not assist braking or warn the
driver even if there are pedestrians or
objects under the following circumstances:
- Any non-factory equipment or accessory is installed
- Your vehicle is unstable due to an
accident or other causes
- Bumper height or rear ultrasonic sensor installation has been modified

--- Page 409 ---
Driver assistance system
- Rear view camera or rear ultrasonic
sensor(s) is damaged
- Rear view camera or the rear ultrasonic sensor(s) is stained with foreign
material, such as snow, dirt, etc.
- Rear view camera is obscured by a
light source or by inclement weather,
such as heavy rain, fog, snow, etc.
- The surroundings are very bright or
very dark
- Outside temperature is very high or
very low
- The wind is either strong (above 12
mph (20 km/h)) or blowing perpendicular to the rear bumper
- Objects generating excessive noise,
such as vehicle horns, loud motorcycle engines or truck air brakes, are
near your vehicle
- An ultrasonic sensor with similar frequency is near your vehicle
- The pedestrians are difficult to recognize under following conditions:
- There is ground height difference
between the vehicle and the pedestrian
- The image of the pedestrian in the
rear view camera is indistinguishable from the background
- The pedestrian is near the rear
edge of the vehicle
- The pedestrian is not standing
upright
- The pedestrian is either very short
or very tall for Reverse Parking Collision-Avoidance Assist to detect
- The pedestrian or cyclist is wearing
clothing that easily blends into the
background, making it difficult to
detect
Reverse Parking Collision-Avoidance Assist (PCA)
- The pedestrian is wearing clothing
that does not reflect ultrasonic
waves well
- Size, thickness, height, or shape of the
object does not reflect ultrasonic
waves well (e.g., pole, bush, curbs,
carts, edge of a wall, etc.)
- The pedestrian or the object is moving
- The pedestrian or the object is very
close to the rear of the vehicle
- A wall is behind the pedestrian or the
object
- The object is not located at the rear
center of your vehicle
- The object is not parallel to the rear
bumper
- The road is slippery or inclined
- The driver backs up the vehicle immediately after shifting to R (Reverse)
- The driver accelerates or circles the
vehicle
Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance
Assist may unnecessarily warn the driver
or assist with braking even if there are
no pedestrians or objects under the following circumstances:
- Any non-factory equipment or accessory is installed
- Your vehicle is unstable due to an
accident or other causes
- Bumper height or rear ultrasonic sensor installation has been modified
- Your vehicle height is low or high due
to heavy loads, abnormal tire pressure, etc.
- Rear view camera or the rear ultrasonic sensor(s) is stained with foreign
material, such as snow, dirt, etc.
- The pattern on the road is mistaken
for a pedestrian

--- Page 410 ---
Driver assistance system Reverse Parking Collision-Avoidance Assist (PCA)
- There is shadow or light reflecting on
the ground
- Pedestrians or objects are around the
path of the vehicle
- Objects generating excessive noise,
such as vehicle horns, loud motorcycle engines or truck air brakes, are
near your vehicle
- Your vehicle is backing towards a narrow passage or parking space
- Your vehicle is backing towards an
uneven road surface, such as an
unpaved road, gravel, bump, gradient,
etc.
- A trailer or carrier is installed on the
rear of your vehicle
- An ultrasonic sensor with similar frequency is near your vehicle
WARNING
- Always pay extreme caution while
driving. The driver is responsible for
controlling the brake for safe driving.
- Always pay attention to road and traffic conditions while driving, whether
or not there is a warning.
- Always look around your vehicle to
make sure there are no pedestrians or
objects before moving the vehicle.
- The performance of Reverse Parking
collision-Avoidance Assist may vary
under certain conditions. If vehicle
speed is above 2 mph (4 km/h),
Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance
Assist will provide collision avoidance
assist only when pedestrians are
detected. Always look around and pay
attention when Reversing your vehicle.
- Some objects may not be detected by
the rear ultrasonic sensors due to the
objects distance, size or material, all of
which can limit the effectiveness of
the sensor.
- Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance
Assist may not operate properly or
may operate unnecessarily depending
on the road conditions and the surroundings.
- Do not solely rely on Reverse Parking
collision-Avoidance Assist. Doing so
may lead to vehicle damage or injuries.
- Always keep the rear view camera
and rear ultrasonic sensors clean.
- Do not use any cleanser containing
acid or alkaline detergents when
cleaning the rear view camera lens.
Use only a mild soap or neutral detergent, and rinse thoroughly with water.
- Do not spray the rear view camera or
the rear ultrasonic sensors or their
surrounding area directly with a high
pressure washer. It may cause the
rear view camera or the rear ultrasonic sensors to malfunction.
- Do not apply objects, such as a
bumper sticker or a bumper guard,
near the rear view camera or rear
ultrasonic sensors or apply paint to
the bumper. Doing so may adversely
affect the performance of Reverse
Parking collision-Avoidance Assist.
- Never disassemble or apply impact on
the rear view camera or the rear ultrasonic sensors components.
- Do not apply unnecessary force on
the rear view camera or the rear ultrasonic sensors. Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance Assist may not
operate properly if the rear view camera or the rear ultrasonic sensor(s) is
forcibly moved out of proper alignment. Visit an authorized Kia dealer.

--- Page 411 ---
Driver assistance system
- Noise may be heard when sudden
braking occurs to avoid a collision.
- If any other warning sound such as
the seat belt warning chime is already
generated, Reverse Parking collision-
Avoidance Assist warning may not
sound.
- Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance
Assist may not work properly if the
bumper has been damaged, replaced
or repaired.
- Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance
Assist may not operate normally if
interfered by strong electromagnetic
waves.
- Playing the vehicle audio system at
high volume may prevent passengers
from hearing Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance Assist warning
sounds.
- The brake control may not operate
properly depending on the status of
ESC (Electronic Stability Control).
There will only be a warning when:
- The ESC (Electronic Stability Control) warning light is on
- ESC (Electronic Stability Control) is
engaged in a different function
NOTICE
Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance
Assist can detect a pedestrian or an
object when:
- A pedestrian is standing behind the
vehicle
- A large obstacle, such as a vehicle, is
parked in the rear center of your vehicle
Declaration of conformity
Declaration of conformity (if
equipped)
The radio frequency components
(Front Radar) complies:
For United States and United
States territories
For Canada

--- Page 412 ---
vtimotnos to noitsislsd

Driver assistance system
The radio frequency components
(Rear Corner Radar) complies:
For United States and United
States territories
FC
FCC ID : LTQ2HSTR
This device complies with Part 15 of the FCC Rules.
Operation is subject to the following two conditions:
(1) this device may not cause harmful interference,
and
(2) this device must accept any interference
received, including interference that may cause
undesired operation.
CAUTION TO USERS
Changes or modifications not expressly approved by
the party responsible for compliance could void the
user's authority to operate the equipment.
For Canada
Model: 2H5TR
IC: 3659A-2H5TR
This device complies with Industry Canada licenceexempt RS5 standard(s). Operation is
subject to the following two conditions:
(1) this device may not cause interference, and
(2) this device must accept any interference,
including interference that may cause undesired
operation of the device.
Le présent appareil est conforme aux CNR
d'Industrie Canada applicables aux appareils
radio exempts de licence. L'exploitation est autorisée
aux deux conditions suivantes:
(1) l'appareil ne doit pas produire de brouillage,
et
(2) l'utilisateur de l'appareil doit accepter tout
brouillage radioélectrique subi, même si le
brouillage est susceptible d'en compromettre
le fonctionnement.
Declaration of conformity
Radio frequency radiation exposure information:
This equipment complies with FCC radiation exposure limits set forth for an
uncontrolled environment. This equipment should be installed and operated
with minimum distance of 8 in (20 cm)
between the radiator (antenna) and your
body. This transmitter must not be colocated or operating in conjunction with
any other antenna or transmitter.

--- Page 413 ---
What to do in an emergency
What to do in an emergency
Road warning 7-3
- Hazard warning flasher 7-3
In case of an emergency while driving 7-3
- If the vehicle stals while driving 7-3
- If the engine stals at a crossroad or crossing 7-3
- If you have a flat tire while driving 7-3
If the engine will not start 7-4
- If engine doesn't turn over or turns over slowly 7-4
- If engine turns over normally but does not start 7-4
Emergency starting 7-5
- Jump-starting 7-5
- Push-starting 7-6
If the engine overheats 7-7
Tire Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS) 7-8
- Effective use of TPMS 7-8
- Low tire pressure teltale 7-9
- Tire Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS) malfunction
indicator 7-10
- Tire replacement with TPMS 7-11
- This device complies with Part 15 of the FCC rules 7-12
If you have a flat tire (with tire mobility kit) 7-12
- Introduction 7-13
- Components of the Tire Mobility Kit 7-14
- Using the Tire Mobility Kit 7-15
- Distributing the sealant 7-16
- Checking the tire inflation pressure 7-17
If you have a flat tire (with spare tire) 7-18
- Jack and tools 7-19
- Removing and storing the spare tire 7-20
- Changing tires 7-20

--- Page 414 ---
'''1-53

• Jack label
Towing..
7 What to do in an emergency
• Important - use of compact spare tire
• Towing without wheel dollies when using a towing service 7-26
mmm. 7-26

--- Page 415 ---
What to do in an emergency Road warning
What to do in an emergency
Road warning
When an emergency situation occurs
while driving or when you park by the
edge of the roadway, you must alert
approaching or passing vehicles to be
careful as they pass. For this, you should
use the hazard warning flasher.
Hazard warning flasher
The hazard warning flasher serves as a
warning to other drivers to exercise
extreme caution when approaching,
overtaking, or passing your vehicle.
It should be used whenever emergency
repairs are being made or when the
vehicle is stopped near the edge of a
roadway.
Depress the flasher switch with the
ENGINE START/STOP button in any
position. The flasher switch is located in
the center fascia panel. Al turn signal
lights will flash simultaneously.
- The hazard warning flasher operates
whether your vehicle is running or not.
- The turn signals do not work when the
hazard flasher is on.
- Care must be taken when using the
hazard warning flasher while the vehicle is being towed.
In case of an emergency while
driving
If an emergency situation occurs while
driving, stay calm and take the following
steps.
If the vehicle stalls while driving
1. Reduce your speed gradually, keeping a straight line.
2.Move cautiously off the road to a safe
place.
3.Turn on your hazard warning flasher.
4.Try to start the vehicle again. If your
vehicle will not start, contact an
authorized Kia dealer or seek other
qualified assistance.
If the engine stalls at a crossroad
or crossing
- If the engine stals at a crossroad or
crossing, set the shift lever in the N
(Neutral) position and then push the
vehicle to a safe place.
If you have a flat tire while driving
1. Take your foot off the accelerator
pedal and let the vehicle slow down
while driving straight ahead.
Do not apply the brakes immediately
or attempt to pull off the road as this
may cause a loss of control.
2.When the vehicle has slowed to such
a speed that it is safe to do so, brake
carefuly and pull off the road.
3.Drive off the road as far as possible
and park on firm level ground.
If you are on a divided highway, do
not park in the median area between
the two traffic lanes.
4.When the vehicle is stopped, turn on
your emergency hazard flashers, set

--- Page 416 ---
What to do in an emergency
If the engine will not start
the parking brake and put the transmission in P.
5.Have all passengers get out of the
vehicle. Be sure they all get out on the
side of the vehicle that is away from
traffic.
6.When changing a flat tire, follow the
instruction provided later in this section.
If the engine will not start
When the engine doesn't start, first
check to see how much fuel there is and
whether the battery is discharged.
If engine doesn't turn over or
turns over slowly
1. Be sure the shift lever is in N (Neutral)
or P (Park) and the emergency brake
is set.
2.Check the battery connections to be
sure they are clean and tight.
3.Turn on the interior light. If the light
dims or goes out when you operate
the starter, the battery is discharged.
4.Check the starter connections to be
sure they are securely tightened.
WARNING
Do not push or pull the vehicle to start it.
This could cause damage to your vehicle. Refer to "Jump-starting" on page 7-
5.
If engine turns over normally but
does not start
1. Check the fuel level and add fuel if
necessary.
2.With the ENGINE START/STOP button
in the OFF position, check all connectors at the ignition coils and spark
plugs. Reconnect any that may be disconnected or loose.
3.Check the fuel line in the engine compartment.
4.If the engine still does not start, cal an
authorized Kia dealer or seek other
qualified assistance.

--- Page 417 ---
What to do in an emergency Emergency starting
When the vehicle will not start because
of low battery power, you may need to
jump start the vehicle.
Jump-starting
Connect cables in numerical order and
disconnect in reverse order.
Jump-starting can be dangerous if done
incorrectly. Therefore, to avoid harm to
yourself or damage to your vehicle or
battery, follow these jump-starting procedures. If in doubt, we strongly recommend that you have a competent
technician or towing service jump-start
your vehicle.
CAUTION
Use only a 12-volt jumper system. You
can damage a 12-volt starting motor,
ignition system, and other electrical
parts beyond repair by use of a 24- volt
power supply (either two 12-volt batteries in series or a 24-volt motor generator
set).
WARNING
Frozen batteries
Do not attempt to jump start the vehicle
if the discharged battery is frozen, as the
battery may rupture or explode.
Emergency starting
WARNING
Battery
- Never attempt to check the electrolyte
level of the battery, as this may cause
the battery to rupture or explode.
- Keep all flames or sparks away from
the battery. The battery produces
hydrogen gas which may explode if
exposed to flame or sparks.
If these instructions are not followed
exactly, serious personal injury and
damage to the vehicle may occur! If
you are not sure how to follow this
procedure, seek qualified assistance.
Automobile batteries contain sulfuric
acid. This is poisonous and highly corrosive. When jump starting, wear protective glasses and be careful not to
get acid on yourself, your clothing or
on the vehicle.
- Do not attempt to jump start the vehicle if the discharged battery is frozen
or if the electrolyte level is low; the
battery may rupture or explode.
- Do not allow the (+) and (-) jumper
cables to touch. It may cause sparks.
- The battery may rupture or explode
when you jump start with a low or frozen battery.
WARNING
Battery cables
Do not connect the jumper cable from
the negative terminal of the booster battery to the negative terminal of the discharged battery, directly. This can cause
the discharged battery to overheat and
crack or degrade. Make sure to connect
one end of the jumper cable to the negative terminal of the booster battery, and

--- Page 418 ---
What to do in an emergency
the other end to a metallic point, far
away from the battery.
WARNING
Sulfuric acid risk
Automobile batteries contain sulfuric
acid. When jump starting your vehicle,
be careful not to get sulfuric acid on
yourself, your clothing, or on the vehicle.
This acid is poisonous and highly corrosive.
Jump-starting
1. Make sure the booster battery is 12-
volt and that its negative terminal is
grounded.
If the booster battery is in another
vehicle, do not allow the vehicles to
come in contact.
2.Turn off all unnecessary electrical
loads.
3.Connect the jumper cables in the
exact sequence shown in the illustration.
1)Connect one end of a jumper cable
to the positive terminal of the discharged battery (1).
2)Connect the other end to the positive terminal of the booster battery
(2).
3)Proceed to connect one end of the
other jumper cable to the negative
terminal of the booster battery (3),
then the other end to a solid, stationary, metallic point away from
the battery (4).
Do not allow the jumper cables to
contact anything except the correct
battery terminals or the correct
ground. Do not lean over the battery when making connections.
Emergency starting
4.If connected with the other vehicle,
start the vehicle with the booster battery first and let it run at 2,000 rpm
for several minutes.
5.Start the vehicle with the discharged
battery.
6.If the engine starts, disconnect one
end of the negative terminal of the
booster battery (3), then other end of
the positive terminal of the booster
battery (2) and the discharged battery
(1).
If the cause of your battery discharging
is not apparent, have your vehicle
checked by an authorized Kia dealer.
Push-starting
Vehicles equipped with automatic transmission cannot be push-started, and
only jump starting can be applied. Follow the directions in this section for
"Jump-starting" on page 7-5.
WARNING
Tow starting vehicle
Never tow a vehicle to start it.
When the engine starts, the vehicle can
suddenly surge forward and could cause
a collision with the tow vehicle.

--- Page 419 ---
What to do in an emergency If the engine overheats
If your temperature gauge indicates
overheating, you experience a loss of
power, or hear a loud pinging or knocking, the engine will probably be too hot.
If this happens, you should:
1. Pull off the road and stop as soon as it
is safe to do so.
2.Shift the gear to P (Park) and set the
parking brake.
3.If the air conditioning is on, turn it off.
4.If engine coolant is running out under
the vehicle or steam is coming out
from underneath the hood, stop the
engine. Do not open the hood until the
coolant has stopped running or the
steaming has stopped.
5.If there is no visible loss of engine
coolant and no steam, leave the
engine running and check to be sure
the engine cooling fan is operating.
1)If the fan is not running, turn the
engine off.
6.Check to see if the water pump drive
belt is missing.
1)If it is not missing, check to see that
it is tight.
2)If the drive belt seems to be satisfactory, check for coolant leaking
from the radiator, hoses or under
the vehicle. (If the air conditioning
had been in use, it is normal for
cold water to be draining from it
when you stop).
WARNING
Under the hood
While the engine is running, keep
hair, hands and clothing away
from moving parts, such as the
If the engine overheats
fan and drive belts, to prevent injury.
7.If the water pump drive belt is broken
or engine coolant is leaking out, stop
the engine immediately and cal the
nearest a professional workshop for
assistance. Cal an authorized Kia
dealer.
8.If you cannot find the cause of the
overheating, wait until the engine
temperature has returned to normal.
If coolant has been lost, carefuly add
coolant to the reservoir to bring the
fluid level in the reservoir up to the
halfway mark.
9.Proceed with caution, keeping alert
for further signs of overheating. If
overheating happens again, cal a
professional workshop for assistance.
Cal an authorized Kia dealer.
WARNING
Coolant reservoir cap
Do not remove the engine coolant reservoir cap when the
engine is hot. This may result in
coolant being blown out of the
opening and cause serious burns.
CAUTION
- Serious loss of coolant indicates there
is a leak in the cooling system and this
should be checked as soon as possible. Have your vehicle checked by an
authorized Kia dealer.
- When the engine overheats from low
engine coolant, suddenly adding
engine coolant may cause cracks in
the engine. To prevent damage, add
engine coolant slowly in small quantities.

--- Page 420 ---
What to do in an emergency
Tire Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS) (if equipped)
The Tire Pressure Monitoring System
(TPMS) detects the pressure of vehicle's
tires and displays it on the LCD display.
1. Low tire pressure teltale/TPMS malfunction indicator
2.Low tire pressure position teltale
(Shown on the LCD display)
Tire Pressure Indicator
- You can check the tire pressure in the
assist mode on the cluster.
- Refer to "Driving Assist mode" on
page 4-69.
- Tire pressure is displayed 1 ~ 2 minutes later after driving.
- If tire pressure is not displayed when
the vehicle is stopped, "Drive to display" message displays. After driving,
check the tire pressure.
- You can change the tire pressure unit
in the user settings mode on the cluster.
- psi, kPa, bar (Refer to "User settings
mode" on page 4-70).
NOTICE
- The tire pressure may change due to
factors such as parking condition,
Tire Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS)
driving style, and altitude above sea
level.
- The tire pressure shown on the dashboard may differ from the tire pressure measured by tire pressure
gauge.
- Low tire pressure warning may sound
when a tire's pressure unit is equal or
lower than nearby tires. This is a normal occurrence, which is due to the
change in tire pressure along with tire
temperature.
Effective use of TPMS
WARNING
Over-inflation or under-inflation can
reduce tire life, adversely affect vehicle
handling, and lead to sudden tire failure
that may cause loss of vehicle control
resulting in an accident
Each tire, including the spare (if provided), should be checked monthly
when cold and inflated to the inflation
pressure recommended by the vehicle
manufacturer on the vehicle placard or
tire inflation pressure label.
(If your vehicle has tires of a different
size than the size indicated on the vehicle placard or tire inflation pressure
label, you should determine the proper
tire inflation pressure for those tires.)
As an added safety feature, your vehicle
has been equipped with a tire pressure
monitoring system (TPMS) that illuminates a low tire pressure teltale when
one or more of your tires is significantly
under-inflated. Accordingly, when the
low tire pressure teltale illuminates, you
should stop and check your tires as soon
as possible, and inflate them to the
proper pressure. Driving on a significantly under-inflated tire causes the tire

--- Page 421 ---
What to do in an emergency to overheat and can lead to tire failure.
Under-inflation also reduces fuel efficiency and tire tread life, and may affect
the vehicle's handling and stopping ability.
Please note that the TPMS is not a substitute for proper tire maintenance, and
it is the driver's responsibility to maintain
correct tire pressure, even if under-inflation has not reached the level to trigger
ilumination of the TPMS low tire pressure teltale.
Your vehicle has also been equipped
with a TPMS malfunction indicator to
indicate when the system is not operating properly. The TPMS malfunction
indicator is combined with the low tire
pressure teltale. When the system
detects a malfunction, the teltale will
flash for approximately one minute and
then remain continuously illuminated.
This sequence will continue upon subsequent vehicle start-ups as long as the
malfunction exists. When the malfunction indicator is illuminated, the system
may not be able to detect or signal low
tire pressure as intended. TPMS malfunctions may occur for a variety of reasons, including the installation of
replacement or alternate tires or wheels
on the vehicle that prevent the TPMS
from functioning properly.
Always check the TPMS malfunction teltale after replacing one or more tires or
wheels on your vehicle to ensure that
the replacement or alternate tires and
wheels allow the TPMS to continue to
function properly.
NOTICE
If any of the below happens, have the
system checked by an authorized Kia
dealer.
Tire Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS)
1. The low tire pressure teltale/TPMS
malfunction indicator does not appear
for 3 seconds when the ENGINE
START/STOP button is turned to the
ON position or engine is running.
2.The TPMS malfunction indicator
remains illuminated after blinking for
approximately 1 minute.
3.The Low tire pressure position teltale
remains illuminated.
Low tire pressure telltale
Low tire pressure position telltale
When the TPMS warning indicators
appear, one or more of your tires is significantly under-inflated.
A: Low tire pressure
If the teltale appears, immediately
reduce your speed, avoid hard cornering
and anticipate increased stopping distances. You should stop and check your
tires as soon as possible.
Inflate the tires to the proper pressure as
indicated on the vehicle's placard or tire
inflation pressure label located on the
driver's side center pilar outer panel. If
you cannot reach a service station or if
the tire cannot hold the newly added air,
replace the low pressure tire with the
spare tire.
Then the TPMS malfunction indicator
and the Low Tire Pressure teltale may
turn on and appear after restarting and
about 20 minutes of continuous driving

--- Page 422 ---
What to do in an emergency
before you have the low pressure tire
repaired and replaced on the vehicle.
In winter or cold weather, the low tire
pressure teltale may appear if the tire
pressure was adjusted to the recommended tire inflation pressure in warm
weather. It does not mean your TPMS is
malfunctioning because the decreased
temperature leads to a proportional lowering of tire pressure.
You should check the tire inflation pressure and adjust the tires to the recommended tire inflation pressure when
driving your vehicle in the following conditions.
- from a warm area to a cold area
- from a cold area to a warm area
- the outside temperature is extremely
high or low
When filling tires with more air, conditions to turn off the low tire pressure teltale may not be met. This is because a
tire inflator has a margin of error in performance. The low tire pressure teltale
will be turned off if the tire pressure is
above the recommended tire inflation
pressure.
WARNING
Low pressure damage
Do not drive on low pressure tires. Significantly low tire pressure can cause the
tires to overheat and fail, making the
vehicle unstable, resulting in increased
braking distances and a loss of vehicle
control.
Tire Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS)
Tire Pressure Monitoring System
(TPMS) malfunction indicator
The low tire pressure teltale will appear
after it blinks for approximately one minute when there is a problem with the
TPMS.
If the system is able to correctly detect
an underinflation warning at the same
time as system failure, it will appear both
the TPMS malfunction and the low tire
pressure position teltales. For example,
if the Front Left sensor fails, the TPMS
malfunction indicator appears, but if the
Front Right, Rear Left, or Rear Right tire
is underinflated, the low tire pressure
position teltales may appear together
with the TPMS malfunction indicator.
Have the system checked by an authorized Kia dealer as soon as possible to
determine the cause of the problem.
- The TPMS malfunction indicator may
appear if the vehicle is moving around
electric power supply cables or radios
transmitters such as at police stations,
government and public offices, broadcasting stations, military installations,
airports, or transmitting towers, etc.
This can interfere with normal operation of the TPMS.
- The TPMS malfunction indicator may
appear if the vehicle is equipped with
snow chains or some personal electronic devices (such as a laptop computer, mobile charger, remote starter
or navigation) are being used in the
vehicle. This can interfere with normal
operation of the TPMS.

--- Page 423 ---
What to do in an emergency Tire Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS)
Tire replacement with TPMS
If you have a flat tire, the Low Tire Pressure teltale will come on. Have the flat
tire repaired by an authorized Kia dealer
as soon as possible or replace the flat
tire with the spare tire.
CAUTION
Repair Agents
Never use a puncture-repairing agent
not approved by Kia to repair and/or
inflate a low pressure tire. Sealant that is
not approved by Kia may damage the
tire pressure sensor.
Each wheel is equipped with a tire pressure sensor mounted inside the tire
behind the valve stem. You must use
TPMS specific wheels. Always have your
tires serviced by an authorized Kia
dealer.
Even if you replace the low pressure tire
with the spare tire, the Low Tire Pressure
teltale will remain on until the low pressure tire is repaired and placed on the
vehicle.
After you replace the low pressure tire
with the spare tire, the TPMS malfunction indicator may appear after a few
minutes. This is because the TPMS sensor mounted on the spare wheel is not
yet activated.
Once the low pressure tire is inflated
again to the recommended pressure and
installed on the vehicle or the TPMS sensor mounted on the replaced spare
wheel is initiated by a professional workshop, the TPMS malfunction indicator
and the low tire pressure teltale will turn
off within a few minutes of driving.
If the indicator has not disappeared after
a few minutes of driving, please visit an
authorized Kia dealer.
If an original mounted tire is replaced
with the spare tire, the TPMS sensor on
the replaced spare wheel should be initiated and the TPMS sensor on the original mounted wheel should be
deactivated. If the TPMS sensor on the
original mounted wheel located in the
spare tire carrier still activates, the Tire
Pressure Monitoring System may not
operate properly. Have the tire with
TPMS serviced or replaced by an authorized Kia dealer.
You may not be able to identify a low tire
by simply looking at it. Always use a
good quality tire pressure gauge to measure the tire's inflation pressure. Please
note that a tire that is hot (from being
driven) will have a higher pressure measurement than a tire that is cold (from
sitting stationary for at least 3 hours and
driven less than 1 mile (1.6 km) during
that 3 hour period).
allow the tire to cool before measuring
the inflation pressure. Always be sure
the tire is cold before inflating to the recommended pressure.
A cold tire means the vehicle has been
sitting for 3 hours and driven for less
than 1 mile (1.6 km) in that 3 hour period.
Never use tire sealant if your vehicle is
equipped with a TPMS. The liquid sealant can damage the tire pressure sensors.
- The TPMS cannot alert you to severe
and sudden tire damage caused by
external factors such as nails or road
debris.
- If you feel any vehicle instability,
immediately take your foot off the
accelerator, apply the brakes gradually and with light force, and slowly
move to a safe position off the road.

--- Page 424 ---
What to do in an emergency
NOTICE
Protecting TPMS
Tampering with, modifying, or disabling
the Tire Pressure Monitoring System
(TPMS) components may interfere with
the system's ability to warn the driver of
low tire pressure conditions and/or
TPMS malfunctions. Tampering with,
modifying, or disabling the Tire Pressure
Monitoring System (TPMS) components
may void the warranty for that portion of
the vehicle.
This device complies with Part 15
of the FCC rules.
Operation is subject to the following
three conditions:
1. This device may not cause harmful
interference, and
2.This device must accept any interference received, including interference
that may cause undesired operation.
3.Changes or modifications not
expressly approved by the party
responsible for compliance could void
the user's authority to operate the
device.
If you have a flat tire (with tire mobility kit)
If you have a flat tire (with tire
mobility kit) (if equipped)
For safe operation, carefuly read and
follow the instructions in this manual
before use.
1. Compressor
2.Sealant bottle
The Tire Mobility Kit is a temporary fix to
the tire and have your vehicle inspected
by an authorized Kia dealer.
CAUTION
One sealant for one tire
When two or more tires are flat, do not
use the tire mobility kit because the supported one sealant of Tire Mobility Kit is
only used for one flat tire.
WARNING
Do not use the Tire Mobility Kit to repair
punctures in the tire wals. This can
result in an accident due to tire failure.
WARNING
Have your tire repaired as soon as possible. The tire may loose air pressure at
any time after inflating with the Tire
Mobility Kit.

--- Page 425 ---
What to do in an emergency If you have a flat tire (with tire mobility kit)
Introduction
With the Tire Mobility Kit you stay mobile
even after experiencing a tire puncture.
The system of compressor and sealing
compound effectively and comfortably
seals most punctures in a passenger car
tire caused by nails or similar objects
and reinflates the tire.
After you ensured that the tire is properly sealed you can drive cautiously on
the tire (distance up to 120 miles (200
km)) at a max. speed of 50 mph (80 km/
h) in order to reach a service station or
tire dealer to have the tire replaced.
It is possible that some tires, especially
with larger punctures or damage to the
sidewal, cannot be sealed completely.
Air pressure loss in the tire may
adversely affect tire performance.
For this reason, you should avoid abrupt
steering or other driving maneuvers,
especially if the vehicle is heavily loaded
or if a trailer is in use.
The Tire Mobility Kit is not designed or
intended as a permanent tire repair
method and is to be used for one tire
only. This instruction shows you step by
step how to temporarily seal the puncture simply and reliably.
Read the section "Notes on the safe use
of the Tire Mobility Kit" on page 7-17.
WARNING
Do not use the TMK if a tire is severely
damaged by driving run flat or with
insufficient air pressure.
Only punctured areas located within the
tread region of the tire can be sealed
using the TMK.

--- Page 426 ---
What to do in an emergency
If you have a flat tire (with tire mobility kit)
Components of the Tire Mobility Kit
1. Speed-restriction label
2.Sealant bottle and label with speed restriction
3.filling hose from sealant bottle to wheel
4.Connectors and cable for the power outlet direct connection
5.Holder for the sealant bottle
6.Compressor
7.ON/OFF switch
8.Pressure gauge for displaying the tire inflation pressure
9.Valve for reducing the tire inflation pressure
* Connectors, cable and connection hose are stored in the compressor housing.
* Strictly follow the specified sequence, otherwise the sealant may escape under high
pressure.

--- Page 427 ---
What to do in an emergency WARNING
Expired sealant
Do not use the Tire sealant after the
sealant has expired (i.e. past the expiration date on the sealant container). This
can increase the risk of tire failure.
WARNING
Sealant
- Keep out of reach of children.
- Avoid contact with eyes.
- Do not swalow.
Using the Tire Mobility Kit
CAUTION
Detach the speed restriction label from
the sealant bottle, and place it in a highly
visible place inside the vehicle such as
on the steering wheel to remind the
driver not to drive too fast.
1. Shake the sealant bottle.
2.Remove the cap of the sealant bottle
and screw connection hose onto the
connector of the sealant bottle.
If you have a flat tire (with tire mobility kit)
3.Ensure that valve on the compressor
is locked.
4.Unscrew the valve cap from the valve
of the defective tire and screw the filling hose of the sealant bottle onto the
tire valve.
CAUTION
Securely install the sealant filling hose
on the valve. If not, sealant may flow
backward, possibly clogging the filling
hose.
5.Ensure that the compressor is
switched off, position 0.
6.Connect between compressor and the
vehicle power outlet using the cable
and connectors.

--- Page 428 ---
What to do in an emergency
7.Make the ENGINE START/STOP button position on or ignition switch position on.
8.Switch on the compressor and let it
run for approximately 5 ~ 7 minutes
to fill the sealant up to proper pressure. (refer to "Tires and wheels" on
page 8-29). The inflation pressure of
the tire after filling is unimportant and
will be checked/corrected later. Be
careful not to overinflate the tire and
stay away from the tire when filling it.
When the tire and wheel are damaged, do not use Tire Mobility Kit for
your safety.
WARNING
If the tire pressure is below
26psi(180kPa), do not drive the vehicle.
The tire may cause accident.
9.Switch off the compressor.
10.Detach the sealant filling hoses from
the sealant bottle connector and from
the tire valve. After using, leave the
sealant bottle and the compressor
attached together.
Return the TMK to its storage location in
the vehicle.
WARNING
Carbon monoxide
Do not leave your vehicle running in a
poorly ventilated area for extended periods of time. Carbon monoxide poisoning
and suffocation can occur.
If you have a flat tire (with tire mobility kit)
Distributing the sealant
- Immediately drive approximately 4 ~
6 miles (7 ~ 10 km or, about 10min) to
evenly distribute the sealant in the
tire.
CAUTION
- Do not exceed a speed of 50 mph (80
km/h). If possible, do not fal below a
speed of 12 mph (20 km/h).
While driving, if you experience any
unusual vibration, ride disturbance or
noise, reduce your speed and drive
with caution until you can safely pull
off of the side of the road. Cal for
road side service or towing.
When you use the Tire Mobility Kit, the
wheel may be stained by sealant.
Therefore, remove the wheel stained
by sealant and have the vehicle
inspected at an authorized Kia dealer.
- Do not connect another vehicle's Tire
Mobility Kit (TMK) to the power outlet
or battery terminal. The unmatched
power requirement between the vehicle power outlet and the tire mobility
kit can cause fire or circuit damage
within the vehicle and the Tire Mobility Kit.

--- Page 429 ---
What to do in an emergency Checking the tire inflation pressure
1. After driving approximately 4 ~ 6
miles (7 ~ 10 km or about 10 min),
stop at a safety location.
2.Connect the filling hose of the compressor directly to the tire valve.
3.Connect between compressor and the
vehicle power outlet using the cable
and connectors.
4.Adjust the tire inflation pressure to the
recommended tire inflation.
With the ignition switched on, proceed
as follows.
- To increase the inflation pressure:
Switch on the compressor. To
check the current inflation pressure
setting, briefly switch off the compressor.
- To reduce the inflation pressure:
Turn the valve on the compressor.
WARNING
Do not let the compressor run for more
than 10 minutes, otherwise the device
will overheat and may be damaged.
CAUTION
If the inflation pressure is not maintained, drive the vehicle a second time,
refer to "Distributing the sealant" on
page 7-16. Then repeat steps 1 to 4.
Use of the TMK may be ineffectual for
tire damage larger than approximately
0.16 of an inch (4 mm).
If you have a flat tire (with tire mobility kit)
Please contact the nearest Kia dealership if the tire cannot be made roadworthy with the Tire Mobility Kit.
WARNING
The tire inflation pressure must be at
least 180 kPa (26 psi). If it is not, do not
continue driving. Cal for road side service or towing.
NOTICE
When reinstalling the repaired or
replaced tire and wheel on the vehicle,
tighten the wheel lug nut to 79 ~ 94 lbf·ft
(11 ~ 13 kgf·m).
Notes on the safe use of the Tire
Mobility Kit
- Park your car at the side of the road
so that you can work with the TMK
away from moving traffic. Place your
warning triangle in a prominent place
to make passing vehicles aware of
your location.
- To be sure your vehicle will not move,
even when you're on fairly level
ground, always set your parking
brake.
- Only use the TMK for sealing/inflation
passenger car tires. Do not use on
motorcycles, bicycles or any other
type of tires.
- Do not remove any foreign objectssuch as nails or screws -that have
penetrated the tire.
- Before using the TMK, read the precautionary advice printed on the sealant bottle!
- Provided the car is outdoors, leave the
engine running. Otherwise operating

--- Page 430 ---
What to do in an emergency
the compressor may eventually drain
the car battery.
- Never leave the TMK unattended
while it is being used.
- Do not leave the compressor running
for more than 10 min. at a time or it
may overheat.
- Do not use the TMK if the ambient
temperature is below -22°F (-30°C).
- When the tire and wheel are damaged, do not use Tire Mobility Kit for
your safety.
Technical Data
- System voltage: DC 12 V
- Working voltage: DC 12 V
- Amperage rating: max. 15 A
- Suitable for use at temperatures: -22
to 158 °F (-30 to 70 °C)
- Max. working pressure: 101 psi (7 bar)
- Size
- Compressor: 150 x 130 x 60 mm
(5.9 x 5.1 x 2.4 in.)
- Sealant bottle: 115.3 x 87.3 ø mm
(4.5 x 3.4 ø in.)
- Compressor weight: 620 g (1.36 lbs)
- Sealant volume: 400 ml (24.4 cu.
in.)
* Sealant and spare parts can be
obtained and replaced at an authorized vehicle or tire dealer. Empty sealant bottles may be disposed of at
home. Liquid residue from the sealant
should be disposed of by your vehicle
or tire dealer or in accordance with
local waste disposal regulations.
If you have a flat tire (with spare tire)
If you have a flat tire (with
spare tire) (if equipped)
If you have a flat tire, you can change
the flat tire to a spare tire using tools.
WARNING
Driving on a flat tire will cause permanent damage to the tire. Re-inflating a
tire after it has been driven on while
severely underinflated or flat may cause
a blowout and a serious crash. Never
attempt to re-inflate a tire that has been
driven on while severely underinflated or
flat. In this case, repair or replace the flat
tire as soon as possible.
WARNING
Changing a tire can be dangerous. Follow the instructions in this section when
changing a tire to reduce the risk of serious injury or death.
CAUTION
Be careful as you use the jack handle to
stay clear of the flat end. The flat end
has sharp edges that could cause cuts.

--- Page 431 ---
What to do in an emergency Jack and tools
The jack, jack handle, wheel lug nut
wrench are stored in the luggage compartment.
Pull up the luggage box cover to reach
this equipment.
1. Jack handle
2.Jack
3.Wheel lug nut wrench
4.Tool for removing wheel cover (if
equipped)
Jacking instructions
The jack is provided for emergency tire
changing only.
- To prevent the jack from "rattling"
while the vehicle is in motion, store it
properly.
- follow jacking instructions to reduce
the possibility of personal injury.
WARNING
Changing tires
- Never attempt vehicle repairs in the
traffic lanes of a public road or highway.
- Always move the vehicle completely
off the road and onto the shoulder
before trying to change a tire. The
jack should be used on firm level
ground. If you cannot find a firm level
place off the road, cal a towing service company for assistance.
- Be sure to use the correct front and
rear jacking positions on the vehicle;
If you have a flat tire (with spare tire)
never use the bumpers or any other
part of the vehicle for jacking support.
- The vehicle can roll off the jack causing serious injury or death.
- Do not go under a vehicle that is supported by a jack.
- Do not start or run the engine while
the vehicle is on the jack.
- Do not allow anyone to remain in the
vehicle while it is on the jack.
- Make sure any children present are in
a secure place, away from the road
and from the vehicle to be raised with
the jack.
WARNING
Tire jack
Do not place any portion of your body
under a vehicle that is only supported by
a jack since the vehicle can easily roll off
the jack. Use vehicle support stands.
WARNING
Changing tires
Never attempt vehicle repairs in the traffic lanes of a public road or highway.
WARNING
Running vehicle on jack
Do not start or run the engine of the
vehicle while the vehicle is on the jack as
this may cause the vehicle to fal off the
jack.
To prevent the jack from "rattling" while
the vehicle is in motion, store it properly.
NOTICE
Retreaded tires
Substantial design variations and the
age of the retreaded tire casing struc-

--- Page 432 ---
What to do in an emergency
ture can limit service life and have negative impact on road safety.
Removing and storing the spare
tire
- Turn the tire hold-down wing bolt
counterclockwise to remove.
- Store the tire in the reverse order of
removal.
- To prevent the spare tire and tools
from "rattling" while the vehicle is in
motion, store them properly.
WARNING
Touching surface of the luggage room
floor
Do not touch the metal surface of the
luggage room floor while the engine is
operating or hot. Doing so could result in
serious bodily injury.
Turn the engine off and wait until it cools
down or wear gloves to remove the
spare tire from the luggage room.
If it is hard to loosen the tire holddown
wing bolt by hand, you can loosen it easily using the jack handle.
- Put the jack (1) inside of the tire holddown wing bolt.
If you have a flat tire (with spare tire)
- Turn the tire hold-down wing bolt
counterclockwise with the jack handle.
Use caution when utilizing the sharp
jack handle.
Changing tires
WARNING
A vehicle can slip or roll off of a jack
causing serious injury or death to you or
those nearby. Take the following safety
precautions:
- Never place any portion of your body
under a vehicle that is supported by a
jack.
- NEVER attempt to change a tire in the
lane of traffic. ALWAYS move the
vehicle completely off the road on
level, firm ground away from traffic
before trying to change a tire. If you
cannot find a level, firm place off the
road, cal a towing service for assistance.
- Be sure to use the jack provided with
the vehicle.
- ALWAYS place the jack on the designated jacking positions on the vehicle
and NEVER on the bumpers or any
other part of the vehicle for jacking
support.
- Do not start or run the engine while
the vehicle is on the jack.
- Do not allow anyone to remain in the
vehicle while it is on the jack.
- Keep children away from the road and
the vehicle.
1. Park on a level surface and apply the
parking brake firmly.

--- Page 433 ---
What to do in an emergency ONQ5051018L
2.Shift the gear to P (Park), apply the
parking brake, and turn the engine
OFF.
3.Activate the hazard warning flasher.
4.Remove the wheel lug nut wrench,
jack, jack handle, and spare tire from
the vehicle.
5.Block both the front and rear of wheel
that is diagonally opposite the jack
position.
WARNING
Jack location
To reduce the possibility of injury, be
sure to only use the jack provided with
the vehicle in the correct jack position;
never use any other part of the vehicle
for jack support.
WARNING
Changing a tire
- To prevent vehicle movement while
changing a tire, always set the parking brake fuly, and always block the
wheel diagonally, opposite the wheel
being changed.
- We recommend that the wheels of the
vehicle be blocked, and that no per-
If you have a flat tire (with spare tire)
son remain in a vehicle that is being
jacked.
WARNING
Never allow any part of a person's body
to be under a vehicle that is being jacked
or that is on a jack. Jacks can be unstable and can fal, leading to serious injury
or death.
6.Insert the tool (1, if equipped) into the
hole and pull out the wheel cover.
NOTICE
When removing the wheel cover, if you
use any other tool except the tool (1)
provided, the wheel cover may be damaged.
7.Loosen the wheel lug nuts counterclockwise one turn each, but do not
remove any nut until the tire has been
raised off the ground.

--- Page 434 ---
What to do in an emergency
8.Place the jack at the front (1) or rear
(2) jacking position closest to the tire
you are changing. Place the jack at
the designated locations under the
frame. The jacking positions are
plates welded to the frame with two
tabs and a raised dot to index with the
jack.
9.Insert the jack handle into the jack
and turn it clockwise, raising the vehicle until the tire just clears the ground.
This measurement is approximately
1.2 inches (30 mm). Before removing
the wheel lug nuts, make sure the
vehicle is stable and that there is no
chance for movement or slippage.
10.Loosen the lug nuts and remove them
with your fingers. Slide the wheel off
the studs and lay it flat so it cannot
roll away. To put the wheel on the
hub, pick up the spare tire, line up the
holes with the studs and slide the
wheel onto them.
If this is difficult, tip the wheel slightly
and get the top hole in the wheel lined
If you have a flat tire (with spare tire)
up with the top stud. Then jiggle the
wheel back and forth until the wheel
can be slid over the other studs.
11.To reinstall the wheel, hold it on the
studs, put the lug nuts on the studs
and tighten them finger tight. Jiggle
the tire to be sure it is completely
seated, then tighten the nuts as much
as possible with your fingers again.
12.Lower the vehicle to the ground by
turning the wheel nut wrench counterclockwise.
Then position the wrench as shown in
the drawing and tighten the lug nuts.
Be sure the socket is seated completely over the nut. Do not stand on
the wrench handle or use an extension pipe over the wrench handle. Go
around the wheel tightening every
other nut until they are all tight. Then
double-check each nut for tightness.
After changing wheels, have the system checked by an authorized Kia
dealer.
WARNING
Installing a wheel
- When you install a wheel, always
remove any corrosion, dirt or foreign
materials present on the mounting
surfaces of the wheel or the surface of
the wheel hub, brake drum or brake
disc that contacts the wheel. Make
sure to secure any fasteners that
attach the rotor to the hub so they do
not interfere with the mounting surfaces of the wheel. installing wheels

--- Page 435 ---
What to do in an emergency without correct metal-to-metal contact at the wheel mounting surfaces
can cause the lug nuts to loosen and
the wheel to come off while your vehicle is in motion, resulting in loss of
vehicle control, personal injury or
death.
- Make sure the wheel makes good
contact with the hub when installed. If
the contact of the mounting surface
between the wheel and hub is not
good, the lug nuts could come loose
and cause the loss of a wheel. Loss of
a wheel may result in loss of control of
the vehicle.
Wheel nut tightening torque:
Steel wheel & aluminum aloy wheel:
79 ~ 94 lbf·ft (11 ~ 13 kgf·m)
If you have a tire gauge, remove the
valve cap and check the air pressure. If
the pressure is lower than recommended, drive slowly to the nearest service station and inflate to the correct
pressure. If it is too high, adjust it until it
is correct. Always reinstall the valve cap
after checking or adjusting tire pressure.
If the cap is not replaced, air may leak
from the tire. If you lose a valve cap, buy
another and install it as soon as possible.
After you have changed wheels, always
secure the flat tire in its place and return
the jack and tools to their proper storage
locations.
CAUTION
Reusing lug nuts
Make certain during wheel removal that
the same nuts that were removed are
reinstalled - or, if replaced, that nuts with
metric threads and the same chamfer
configuration are used. Your vehicle has
metric threads on the wheel studs and
nuts. installation of a non-metric thread
If you have a flat tire (with spare tire)
nut on a metric stud will not secure the
wheel to the hub properly and will damage the stud so that it must be replaced.
Note that most lug nuts do not have
metric threads. Be sure to use extreme
care in checking for thread style before
installing aftermarket lug nuts or wheels.
If in doubt, consult an authorized Kia
dealer.
WARNING
Wheel studs
If the studs are damaged, they may lose
their ability to retain the wheel. This
could lead to the loss of the wheel and a
collision resulting in serious injuries.
WARNING
Never use oil or grease on bolts or nuts
because the nuts might come loose. The
vehicle's wheel could fal off, causing a
crash.
Important - use of compact spare
tire (if equipped)
Your vehicle is equipped with a compact
spare tire. This compact spare tire takes
up less space than a regular-size tire.
This tire is smaler than a conventional
tire and is designed for temporary use
only.
- The compact spare tire is provided
only to get you to the nearest tire
store or repair facility. Do not driver
on the compact spare longer than
necessary. When driving on a compact spare, drive more slowly and
carefuly than usual. It may not corner
the same as a full size tire, and it may
not be as durable. Failure to follow
these instructions can lead to an accident or to being stranded.

--- Page 436 ---
What to do in an emergency
- The operation of this vehicle is not
recommended with more than one
compact spare tire in use at the same
time.
WARNING
Spare tire
The compact spare tire is for emergency
use only. Do not operate your vehicle on
this compact spare at speeds over 50
mph (80 km/h). The original tire should
be repaired or replaced as soon as possible to avoid failure of the spare, possibly leading to bodily injury or death.
The compact spare tire should be
inflated to 60 psi (420 kPa).
NOTICE
Check the inflation pressure after installing the spare tire. Adjust it tothe specified pressure, as necessary.
When using a compact spare tire,
observe the following precautions:
- Under no circumstances should you
exceed 50 mph (80 km/h); a higher
speed could damage the tire.
- Ensure that you drive slowly enough
for the road conditions to avoid al
hazards. Any road hazard, such as a
pothole or debris, could seriously
damage the compact spare.
- Any continuous road use of this tire
could result in tire failure, loss of vehicle control, and possible personal
injury.
- Do not exceed the vehicle's maximum
load rating or the load-carrying
capacity shown on the sidewal of the
compact spare tire.
- Avoid driving over obstacles. The
compact spare tire diameter is smaler
than the diameter of a conventional
If you have a flat tire (with spare tire)
tire and reduces the ground clearance
approximately 1 inch (25 mm), which
could result in damage to the vehicle.
- Do not take this vehicle through an
automatic vehicle wash while the
compact spare tire is installed.
- Do not use tire chains on the compact
spare tire. Because of the smaler size,
a tire chain will not fit properly. This
could damage the vehicle and result
in loss of the chain.
- Do not use the compact spare tire on
any other vehicle because this tire has
been designed especially for your
vehicle.
- The compact spare tire's tread life is
shorter than a regular tire. Inspect
your compact spare tire regularly and
replace worn compact spare tires with
the same size and design, mounted
on the same wheel.
- The compact spare tire should not be
used on any other wheels, nor should
standard tires, snow tires, wheel covers or trim rings be used with the
compact spare wheel. If such use is
attempted, damage to these items or
other vehicle components may occur.
- Do not use more than one compact
spare tire at a time.
- Do not tow a trailer while the compact
spare tire is installed.

--- Page 437 ---
What to do in an emergency If you have a flat tire (with spare tire)
Jack label
Type A
Type B
Type C
* The actual Jack label in the vehicle may
differ from the illustration. For more
detailed specifications, refer to the
label attached to the jack.
1. Model Name
2.Maximum allowable load
3.When using the jack, set your parking
brake.
4.When using the jack, stop the engine.
5.Do not get under a vehicle that is supported by a jack.
6.The designated locations under the
frame
7.When supporting the vehicle, the base
plate of jack must be vertical under
the lifting point.
8.Move the shift position to the P (Park)
position on vehicles.
9.The jack should be used on firm level
ground.
10.Jack manufacturer
11.Production date
12.Representative company and address

--- Page 438 ---
What to do in an emergency
Towing
Towing service
If emergency towing is necessary, have
it done by authorized Kia dealer or a
commercial tow-truck service.
Proper lifting and towing procedures are
necessary to prevent damage to the
vehicle. The use of wheel dolies (1) or
flatbed is recommended.
CAUTION
The AWD vehicle should never be towed
with the wheels on the ground. This can
cause serious damage to the transmission or the AWD system.
WARNING
Side and curtain air bag
If your vehicle is equipped with side and
curtain air bag, set the ENGINE START/
STOP button to ACC position when the
vehicle is being towed.
The side and curtain air bag may deploy
when the ENGINE START/STOP button
Towing
to ON position and the rollover sensor
detects the situation as a rollover.
NOTICE
If the EPB does not release normally,
take your vehicle to an authorized Kia
dealer by loading the vehicle on a flatbed tow truck and have the system
checked.
Towing without wheel dollies
when using a towing service
When towing your vehicle in an emergency without wheel dolies:
1. Set the ignition switch or ENGINE
START/STOP button to ACC position.
2.Place the shift lever in N (Neutral).
3.Release the parking brake.
2-wheel drive vehicle (front wheel drive)
CAUTION
Towing gear position
Failure to shift to N (Neutral) may cause
internal damage to the vehicle.
CAUTION
- If any of the loaded wheels or suspension components are damaged or the
vehicle is being towed with the front
wheels on the ground, use a towing
doly under the front wheels.

--- Page 439 ---
What to do in an emergency ONQ5051014
- Do not tow the vehicle backwards
with the front wheels on the ground,
as this may cause damage to the
transmission.
2-wheel drive vehicle (front wheeldrive)
- Attaching straps to the chassis, suspension or other parts of the body can
cause damage.
- Do not tow with sling-type equipment.
Use wheel lift or flatbed equipment.
- Do not tow the vehicle with four
wheels in contact with the ground if it
is the vehicle equipped with Automatic Transmission. Otherwise, the
transmission will be seriously damaged. Also, make sure not to tow the
vehicle connecting it with other vehicles including camper vans.
WARNING
- If you tow the vehicle while the front
wheels are touching the ground, the
vehicle motor may generate electricity
and the motor components may be
damaged or a fire may occur.
- When a vehicle fire occurs due to the
battery, there is a risk of a second fire.
Towing
Contact the fire department when
towing the vehicle.
Emergency towing
Front
Rear
If towing is necessary, we recommend
you have it done by an authorized Kia
dealer or a commercial tow truck service.
If a towing service is not available in an
emergency, your vehicle may be temporarily towed using a cable or chain
secured to the emergency towing hook
at the front (or rear) of the vehicle.
Use extreme caution when towing the
vehicle with a cable or chain. A driver
must be in the vehicle to steer it and
operate the brakes.
Towing in this manner may be done only
on hard-surfaced roads for a short distance and at low speeds. Also, the
wheels, axles, power train, steering and
brakes must all be in good condition.
CAUTION
Accelerate or decelerate the vehicle in a
slow and gradual manner while maintaining tension on the tow rope or chain

--- Page 440 ---
What to do in an emergency
to start or drive the vehicle, otherwise
tow hooks and the vehicle may be damaged.
Always follow these emergency towing
precautions:
- Place the ignition switch in the ACC
position so the steering wheel is not
locked.
- Place the shift button in N (Neutral).
- Release the parking brake.
- Depress the brake pedal with more
force than normal as you will have
reduced braking performance.
- More steering effort will be required
because the power steering system
will be disabled.
- Use a vehicle heavier than your own
to tow your vehicle.
- The drivers of both vehicles should
communicate with each other frequently.
- Before emergency towing, check that
the hook is not broken or damaged.
- Fasten the towing cable or chain
securely to the hook.
- Do not jerk the hook. Apply steady
and even force.
- Use a towing cable or chain less than
16 feet (5 m) long. Attach a white or
Towing
red cloth (about 12 inches (30 cm)
wide) in the middle of the cable or
chain for easy visibility.
- Drive carefuly so the towing cable or
chain remains tight during towing.
- Before towing, check the automatic
transmission for fluid leaks under
your vehicle. If the automatic transmission fluid is leaking, flatbed equipment or a towing doly must be used.
NOTICE
- The driver must be in the vehicle for
steering and braking operations when
the vehicle is towed and passengers
other than the driver must not be
allowed to be on board.
- To avoid damage to your vehicle and
vehicle components when towing:
- Always pull straight ahead when
using the towing hooks. Do not pull
from the side or at a vertical angle.
- Do not use the towing hooks to pull
a vehicle out of mud, sand or other
conditions from which the vehicle
cannot be driven out under its own
power.
- Limit the vehicle speed to 10 mph
(15 km/h) and drive less than 1 mile
(1.5 km) when towing to avoid serious damage to the automatic transmission.

--- Page 441 ---
Maintenance
Maintenance
Engine compartment 8-4
Maintenance services 8-5
Owner maintenance 8-6
- Owner maintenance schedule 8-6
Scheduled maintenance service 8-8
- Scheduled maintenance service precaution 8-8
Explanation of scheduled maintenance items 8-13
- Engine oil and filter 8-13
- Drive belts 8-13
- Fuel filter 8-13
- Fuel lines, fuel hoses and connections 8-13
- Fuel tank and fuel cap 8-13
- Vacuum crankcase ventilation hoses 8-13
- Air cleaner filter 8-13
- Spark plugs 8-13
- Cooling system 8-14
- Coolant 8-14
- Automatic transmission fluid 8-14
- Brake hoses and lines 8-14
- Parking brake 8-14
- Brake fluid 8-14
- Exhaust pipe and muffler 8-14
- Brake discs, pads and calipers 8-14
- Suspension mounting bolts 8-14
- Steering gear box, linkage & boots/lower arm bal joint 8-14
- Drive shafts and boots 8-15
- Air conditioning refrigerant 8-15
- Propeler shaft 8-15
- Checking fluid levels 8-15
Engine oil 8-15
- Checking the engine oil level 8-15

--- Page 442 ---
8 Maintenance
- Changing the engine oil and filter 8-16
Engine coolant 8-17
- Checking the coolant level 8-17
- Changing the coolant 8-19
Brake fluid 8-20
- Checking the brake fluid level 8-20
Washer fluid 8-21
- Checking the washer fluid level 8-21
Parking brake 8-21
- Checking the parking brake 8-21
Air cleaner filter 8-22
- Replacing air cleaner filter 8-22
Climate control air filter 8-22
- Filter inspection 8-22
Wiper blades 8-23
- Blade inspection 8-23
- Blade replacement 8-24
Battery 8-26
- For best battery service 8-26
- Battery capacity label 8-27
- Battery recharging 8-27
- Reset items 8-28
Tires and wheels 8-29
- Checking tire inflation pressure 8-30
- Tire rotation 8-31
- Wheel alignment and tire balance 8-32
- Tire replacement 8-32
- Wheel replacement 8-33
- Tire traction 8-33
- Tire maintenance 8-33

--- Page 443 ---
Maintenance
- Tire sidewal labeling 8-33
- Tire terminology and definitions 8-37
- Al season tires 8-39
- Summer tires 8-40
- Snow tires 8-40
- Tire chains 8-40
- Radial-ply tires 8-41
Fuses 8-42
- Inner panel fuse replacement 8-44
- Engine compartment fuse replacement 8-44
- Fuse/relay panel description 8-45
Light bulbs 8-54
- Bulb replacement precaution 8-54
- Light bulb position (Front) 8-55
- Light bulb position (Rear) 8-56
- Light bulb position (Side) 8-56
- Replacing lights (LED type) 8-56
- Replacing front turn signal lamp (Bulb type) 8-57
- Replacing rear turn signal lamp, stop lamp (Bulb type) 8-57
- Replacing high mounted stop lamp (LED type) 8-58
- Replacing license plate lamp (Bulb type) 8-58
- Replacing map lamp (Bulb type) 8-58
- Replacing room lamp (Bulb type) 8-59
- Replacing vanity mirror lamp (Bulb type) 8-59
- Replacing glove box lamp (Bulb type) 8-60
- Replacing luggage lamp (Bulb type) 8-60
Appearance care 8-61
- Exterior care 8-61
- Interior care 8-66
Emission control system 8-68
California perchlorate notice 8-70

--- Page 444 ---
ido aso msortetism2

Maintenance
Maintenance
Engine compartment
1. Engine coolant reservoir
2. Brake fluid reservoir
3. Air cleaner
4. Engine oil filler cap
5. Engine oil dipstick
7. Fuse box
8. Negative battery terminal
9. Positive battery terminal
Smartstream G2.5 GDi
6. Windshield washer fluid reservoir
Engine compartment

--- Page 445 ---
Maintenance Maintenance services
You should exercise the utmost care to
prevent damage to your vehicle and
injury to yourself whenever performing
any maintenance or inspection procedures.
Should you have any doubts concerning
the inspection or servicing of your vehicle, have an authorized Kia dealer perform this work.
An authorized Kia dealer has factorytrained technicians and genuine Kia
parts to service your vehicle properly.
For expert advice and quality service,
see an authorized Kia dealer.
Inadequate, incomplete or insufficient
servicing may result in operational problems with your vehicle that could lead to
vehicle damage, an accident, or personal
injury.
Owner's responsibility
NOTICE
Maintenance Service and Record Retention are the owner's responsibility.
You should retain documents that show
proper maintenance has been performed on your vehicle in accordance
with the scheduled maintenance service
charts shown on the following pages.
You need this information to establish
your compliance with the servicing and
maintenance requirements of your vehicle warranties.
Detailed warranty information is provided in your Warranty & Consumer
Information manual.
Repairs and adjustments required as a
result of improper maintenance or a lack
of required maintenance are not covered.
Maintenance services
Have your vehicle maintained and
repaired by an authorized Kia dealer.
Authorized Kia dealers meet Kia's high
service quality standards and receive
technical support from Kia in order to
provide you with a high level of service
satisfaction.
NOTICE
NHTSA Safety Corrosion Alert
The National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration (NHTSA) has issued a
general warning to all vehicle owners of
all brands regarding the risks associated
with vehicle underbody corrosion. From
your initial purchase, take the following
steps to prevent unsafe corrosion damage to your vehicle:
- Wash the undercarriage of your vehicle regularly during the winter and
whenever your vehicle has been
exposed to such salts or chemicals.
- Do a thorough washing of the undercarriage at the end of the winter.
- Use professional service technicians
or governmental inspection stations
to annually inspect for corrosion.
- Immediately seek an inspection of
your vehicle if you become visually
aware of corrosion flaking or scaling
or if you become aware of a change in
vehicle performance, such as soft or
spongy brakes, fluids leaking, impairment of directional control, suspension noises or rattling metal straps.
- NHTSA further advises that after a
vehicle is 7 years old, it is essential
that you take these indicated maintenance steps to ensure that you pro-
tect yourself from unsafe corrosion
conditions.

--- Page 446 ---
Maintenance
Owner maintenance precautions
Improper or incomplete service may
result in problems. This section gives
instructions only for the maintenance
items that are easy to perform.
As explained earlier in this section, several procedures can be done only by an
authorized Kia dealer with special tools.
NOTICE
Improper owner maintenance during the
warranty period may affect warranty
coverage. For details, read the separate
Warranty & Consumer Information manual provided with the vehicle. If you're
unsure about any servicing or maintenance procedure, have it done by an
authorized Kia dealer.
WARNING
Maintenance work
Do not wear jewelry or loose clothing
while working under the hood of your
vehicle with the engine running. These
items can become entangled in moving
parts, if you must run the engine while
working under the hood, make certain
that you remove all jewelry (especially
rings, bracelets, watches, and necklaces)
and all neckties, scarves, and similar
loose clothing before getting near cooling fans.
WARNING
Touching metal parts
Do not touch metal parts (including strut
bars) while the vehicle is operating or
hot. Doing so could result in serious
bodily injury. Turn the vehicle off and
wait until the metal parts cool down to
perform maintenance work on the vehicle.
Owner maintenance
Owner maintenance
The following lists are vehicle checks
and inspections that should be performed by the owner or an authorized
Kia dealer at the frequencies indicated
to help ensure safe, dependable operation of your vehicle.
Any adverse conditions should be
brought to the attention of your dealer
as soon as possible.
These owner maintenance checks are
generally not covered by warranties and
you may be charged for labor, parts and
lubricants used.
Owner maintenance schedule
When you stop for fuel:
- Check the coolant level in coolant reservoir.
- Check the windshield washer fluid
level.
- Look for low or under-inflated tires.
- Check if the front of the radiator and
condenser are clean and not blocked
with leaves, dirt or insects etc. If any
of the above parts are extremely dirty
or you are not sure of their condition,
take your vehicle to an authorized Kia
dealer.
WARNING
Hot coolant
Be careful when checking your
engine coolant level when the
engine is hot. Scalding hot coolant and steam may blow out
under pressure.

--- Page 447 ---
Maintenance While operating your vehicle:
- Note any changes in the sound of the
exhaust or any smell of exhaust
fumes in the vehicle.
- Check for vibrations in the steering
wheel. Notice any increased steering
effort or looseness in the steering
wheel, or change in its straight-ahead
position.
- Notice if your vehicle constantly turns
slightly or "puls" to one side when
traveling on smooth, level road.
- When stopping, listen and check for
unusual sounds, pulling to one side,
increased brake pedal travel or "hardto-push" brake pedal.
- If any slipping or changes in the operation of your transmission occurs,
take your vehicle to an authorized Kia
dealer.
- Check the transmission P (Park) function.
- Check the parking brake.
- Check for fluid leaks under your vehicle (water dripping from the air conditioning system during or after use is
normal).
At least monthly:
- Check the coolant level in the coolant
reservoir.
- Check the operation of all exterior
lights, including the stoplights, turn
signals and hazard warning flashers.
- Check the inflation pressures of al
tires including the spare (if provided)
for tires that are worn, show uneven
wear, or are damaged.
- Check for loose wheel lug nuts.
Owner maintenance
At least once every 6 months:
- Check the radiator, heater and air
conditioning hoses for leaks or damage.
- Check the windshield washer spray
and wiper operation. Clean the wiper
blades with clean cloth dampened
with washer fluid.
- Check the headlamp alignment.
- Check the muffler, exhaust pipes,
shields and clamps.
- Check the lap/shoulder belts for wear
and function.
At least once a year:
- Clean the body and door drain holes.
- Lubricate the door hinges and check
the hood hinges.
- Lubricate the door and hood locks
and latches.
- Lubricate the door rubber weatherstrips.
- Check the air conditioning system.
- Inspect and lubricate transmission
linkage and controls.
- Clean the battery and terminals.
- Check the brake fluid level.
- Visually inspect steering, suspension,
and chassis components for damaged, loose, or missing parts or signs
of wear.

--- Page 448 ---
Maintenance
Scheduled maintenance service
Scheduled maintenance service
precaution
follow the Normal Maintenance Schedule if the vehicle is usually operated
where none of the following conditions
apply. If any of the following conditions
apply, follow the Maintenance Under
Severe Usage Conditions.
- Repeated driving short distance of
less than 5 miles (8 km) in normal
temperature or less than 10 miles (16
km) in freezing temperature
- Extensive engine idling or low speed
driving for long distances
- Driving on rough, dusty, muddy,
unpaved, graveled or salt-spread
roads
- Driving in areas using salt or other
corrosive materials or in very cold
weather
- Driving in heavy dust condition
- Driving in heavy traffic area
- Driving on uphill, downhill, or mountain road repeatedly
- Using for towing or camping and driving with loading on the roof
- Driving as a patrol car, taxi, other
commercial use of vehicle towing
- Frequently driving under high speed
or rapid acceleration/deceleration.
- Frequently driving in stop-and-go
condition
If your vehicle operates under the following conditions, you should inspect,
replace or refil more frequently or follow
the 'Severe' Maintenance schedule. After
the periods or distance shown in the
chart, continue to follow the prescribed
maintenance intervals.
Scheduled maintenance service
NOTICE
The vehicle may be equipped with the
Oil Life Management System that predicts engine oil life based on the driver's
driving history and alerts the driver to
change engine oil.
- If the deterioration of the engine oil
increases depending on the driver's
driving severity, the remaining oil life
alert appears on the instrument cluster before the normal engine oil
replacement interval. Have the engine
oil and filter be changed by an authorized Kia dealer.
- Oil Life Management System when
the recommended engine oil is used.
So, if recommended engine oil is not
used, replace the engine oil according
to the maintenance schedule under
severe usage condition.
Also, check the amount of engine oil regularly as this system assumes that the
engine oil is being filed normally.
- Always reset the remaining engine oil
life whenever the engine oil is
changed. Otherwise, the Oil Life Management System may not be accurate.
- To reset the Oil Change Reminder,
select "RESET" from the infotainment
system screen. Then, select "Yes"
when the message "Has the engine oil
been changed. Press [Yes] to reset
the oil life." appears on the screen.
- If there is no alert until the maximum
maintenance interval, have vehicle be
checked by an authorized Kia dealer.

--- Page 449 ---
Maintenance
* NOTICE
After 10 years or 100,000 miles
(150,000 km), we recommend to use
severe maintenance schedule.
Scheduled maintenance service

--- Page 450 ---
AAT

Maintenance
Normal maintenance schedule
The following maintenance services must be performed to ensure good emission
control and performance. Keep receipts for all vehicle services to protect your warranty. Where both mileage and date are shown, the frequency of service is determined by whichever occurs first.
I: Inspect and if necessary, adjust, correct, clean or replace.
R: Replace or change.
Number of months or driving distance, whichever comes first
Months
Milesx 1,000
Kmx1,000
Tire rotation
Fuel additives "
Engine oil and Smartstream G2.5 GDi
engine oil filter?
Climate control air filter
Air cleaner filter (Engine)
Brake fluid
Spark plugs Smartstream G2.5 GDi
Coolant (Engine) 3
Air conditioner refrigerant
Air conditioner compressor
12V Battery condition
Vacuum hoses
Brake discs and pads
Brake lines, hoses and connections
Suspension ball joints
Steering gear rack, linkage and boots
Exhaust system
Drive shaft and boots
Propeller shaft (AWD)
Parking brake (Foot type)
Fuel tank and fuel cap
Fuel tank air filter
Fuel lines, hoses and connections
Cooling system
Drive belts (Engine) 4
Differential oil (rear) (AWD) "5
Transfer case oil (AWD)"6
Scheduled maintenance service
12 24 | 36 48|60|72|84|96|108|120 132|144
8 16 124 / 32 140 48 64 | 72 80 88 96
13 26 39 52 | 65 178 91|104|117 130|143 1156
Rotate every 8,000 miles (13,000 km) or 12 months
Add every 8,000 miles (13,000 km) or 12 months
R R R R R R R R R R R R
R R R R R R
R R R R
Inspect every 8,000 miles (13,000 km) or 12 months,
Replace every 48,000 miles (78,000 km) or 48 months
Replace every 96,000 miles (156,000 km)
At first, replace at 120,000 miles (195,000 km) or 120 months
After that, replace every 24,000 miles (39,000 km) or 24 months
- _-
|
-
Inspect every 40,000 miles (65,000 km) or 48 months

--- Page 451 ---
Maintenance Scheduled maintenance service
Number of months or driving distance, whichever comes first
Months 12 24 36 48 60 72 84 96 108 120 132 144
Miles×1,000 8 16 24 32 40 48 56 64 72 80 88 96
Km×1,000 13 26 39 52 65 78 91 104 117 130 143 156
Automatic transmission (AT) fluid* Smartstream G2.5 GDi No service required
*1. Fuel additives
If TOP TIER Detergent Gasoline is not
available, one bottle of additive is recommended. Additives are available from
your authorized Kia dealer along with
information on how to use them. Do not
mix other additives.
*4. Drive belts (Engine)
Inspect alternator, water pump and air
conditioner drive belt and if necessary,
repair or replace. Inspect drive belt tensioner, idler and alternator puley and if
necessary correct or replace.
*2. Engine oil and engine oil filter
As it is normal for engine oil to be consumed during driving, the engine oil
level should be checked on regular
basis.
The engine oil change interval for normal operating conditions is based on the
use of the recommended engine specification. If the recommended engine oil
specification is not used, then replace
the engine oil according to the maintenance schedule under severe operating
conditions.
Never add any additives to the engine
oil. Engine oil additives can change the
properties of engine oil and may cause
serious engine failure.
*3. Coolant (Engine)
When adding coolant, use only deionized water or soft water for your vehicle
and never mix hard water in the coolant
filed at the factory. An improper coolant
mixture can result in serious malfunction
or engine damage.
*5. Differential oil (rear) (AWD)
If the vehicle has been submerged in
water or in a flooded area, the fluids
should be changed as a precaution.
*6. Transfer case oil (AWD)
If the vehicle has been submerged in
water or in a flooded area, the fluids
should be changed as a precaution.
*. Transmission fluid
If the vehicle has been submerged in
water or in a flooded area, the fluids
should be changed as a precaution.
Fuel filter (Gasoline engine)
The fuel filter is considered to be maintenance free but periodic inspection is
recommended for this maintenance
schedule depends on fuel quality.
- If there are some important safety
matters like fuel flow restriction, surging, loss of power, hard starting problem etc, replace the fuel filter
immediately regardless of maintenance schedule and consult an authorized Kia dealer for details.

--- Page 452 ---
Maintenance
Scheduled maintenance service
Maintenance under severe usage conditions
I: Inspect and if necessary, adjust, correct, clean or replace.
R: Replace or change.
Maintenance item Maintenance
operation Maintenance intervals Driving condition
Engine oil and engine oil
filter
GDi Smartstream G2.5
R Every 5,000 miles (8,000
km) or 6 months G, J, K
Spark plugs Smartstream G2.5
GDi
R More frequently A, B, F, G, H, I, K
Air cleaner filter R More frequently C, E
Climate control air filter R More frequently C, E, G
Automatic transmission
(AT) fluid
GDi Smartstream G2.5
R Every 56,000 miles
(91,000 km) A, C, F, G, H, I, J, K
Differential oil (rear) (AWD) R Every 72,000 miles (117,000
km) C, E, G, H, I, J
Transfer case oil (AWD) R Every 72,000 miles (117,000
km) C, E, G, H, I, J
Steering gear rack, linkage and boots I More frequently C, D, E, F, G, H, I
Suspension bal joints I More frequently C, D, E, G, H, I
Brake discs, pads and calipers I More frequently C, D, E, G, H, J, I, K
Parking brake (Foot type) I More frequently C, D, G, H
Drive shaft and boots I More frequently C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J
Propeler shaft (AWD) I More frequently C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J
Severe driving conditions
A: Repeatedly driving short distance of
less than 5 miles (8 km) in normal temperature or less than 10 miles (16 km) in
freezing temperature.
B: Extensive engine idling or low speed
driving for long distances.
C: Driving on rough, dusty, muddy,
unpaved, graveled or saltspread roads.
D: Driving in areas using salt or other
corrosive materials or in very cold
weather
E: Driving in heavy dust condition.
F: Driving in heavy traffic area.
G: Driving on uphill, downhill, or mountain roads repeatedly.
H: Using for towing or camping and driving with loading on the roof
I: Driving for patrol car, taxi, other commercial use of vehicle towing.
J: Frequently driving under high speed
or rapid acceleration/deceleration
K: Frequently driving in stop-and-go
conditions.

--- Page 453 ---
Maintenance Explanation of scheduled maintenance items
Explanation of scheduled
maintenance items
Engine oil and filter
The engine oil and filter should be
changed at the intervals specified in the
maintenance schedule. If the vehicle is
being driven in severe conditions, more
frequent oil and filter changes are
required.
Drive belts
Inspect all drive belts for evidence of
cuts, cracks, excessive wear or oil saturation and replace if necessary. Drive
belts should be checked periodically for
proper tension and adjusted as necessary.
CAUTION
When you are inspecting the belt, place
the ignition switch or ENGINE START/
STOP button in the LOCK/OFF or ACC
position.
Fuel filter
The fuel filter is considered to be maintenance free but periodic inspection is
recommended for this maintenance
schedule depends on fuel quality.
If there are some important safety matters like fuel flow restriction, surging,
loss of power, hard starting problem etc.,
replace the fuel filter immediately
regardless of maintenance schedule and
consult an authorized Kia dealer for
details.
Fuel lines, fuel hoses and connections
Check the fuel lines, fuel hoses and connections for leakage and damage. Have
the fuel lines, fuel hoses and connections replaced by an authorized Kia
dealer.
Fuel tank and fuel cap
The fuel tank and fuel capshould be
inspected at those intervals specified in
the maintenance schedule. Make sure
that a new fuel tank and fuel cap is correctly replaced.
Vacuum crankcase ventilation
hoses
Inspect the surface of hoses for evidence of heat and/or mechanical damage. Hard and brittle rubber, cracking,
tears, cuts, abrasions, and excessive
swelling indicate deterioration. Particular
attention should be paid to examine
those hose surfaces nearest to high heat
sources, such as the exhaust manifold.
Inspect the hose routing to assure that
the hoses do not come in contact with
any heat source, sharp edges or moving
component which might cause heat
damage or mechanical wear. Inspect al
hose connections, such as clamps and
couplings, to make sure they are secure,
and that no leaks are present. Hoses
should be replaced immediately if there
is any evidence of deterioration or damage.
Air cleaner filter
Have the air cleaner filter replaced by an
authorized Kia dealer.
Spark plugs
Make sure to install new spark plugs of
the correct heat range.
When assembling parts, be sure to wipe
the inside and outside of the boot bottom of the ignition coil and the insulator
of the spark plug with a soft cloth to prevent contamination of the spark plug
insulator.

--- Page 454 ---
Maintenance
WARNING
Do not disconnect and inspect spark
plugs when the engine is hot. You may
burn yourself.
Cooling system
Check the cooling system components,
such as the radiator, coolant reservoir,
hoses and connections for leakage and
damage. Replace any damaged parts.
Coolant
The coolant should be changed at the
intervals specified in the maintenance
schedule.
Automatic transmission fluid
Automatic transmission fluid should not
be checked under normal usage conditions. Have the automatic transmission
fluid changed by an authorized Kia
dealer.
NOTICE
Automatic transmission fluid color is
basically red.
As the vehicle is driven, the automatic
transmission fluid will begin to look
darker. It is normal condition and you
should not judge the need to replace the
fluid based upon the changed color.
CAUTION
The use of a non-specified fluid could
result in transmission malfunction and
failure.
Use only specified automatic transmission fluid. (Refer to "Recommended
lubricants and capacities" on page 9-7.)
Explanation of scheduled maintenance items
Brake hoses and lines
Visually check for proper installation,
chafing, cracks, deterioration and any
leakage. Replace any deteriorated or
damaged parts immediately.
Parking brake
Inspect the parking brake system including the parking brake lever (or pedal)
and cables.
Brake fluid
Check the brake fluid level in the brake
fluid reservoir. The level should be
between "MIN" and "MAX" marks on the
side of the reservoir. Use only hydraulic
brake fluid conforming to DOT 4 specification.
Exhaust pipe and muffler
Visually inspect the exhaust pipes, muffler and hangers for cracks, deterioration, or damage. Start the engine and
listen carefuly for any exhaust gas leakage. Tighten connections or replace
parts as necessary.
Brake discs, pads and calipers
Check the pads for excessive wear, discs
for run out and wear, and calipers for
fluid leakage.
Suspension mounting bolts
Check the suspension connections for
looseness or damage. Retighten to the
specified torque.
Steering gear box, linkage &
boots/lower arm ball joint
With the vehicle stopped and engine off,
check for excessive free-play in the
steering wheel.
Check the linkage for bends or damage.
Check the dust boots and bal joints for
deterioration, cracks, or damage.
Replace any damaged parts.

--- Page 455 ---
Maintenance Drive shafts and boots
Check the drive shafts, boots and
clamps for cracks, deterioration, or damage. Replace any damaged parts and, if
necessary, repack the grease.
Air conditioning refrigerant
Check the air conditioning lines and connections for leakage and damage.
Propeller shaft (if equipped)
Check the propeler shaft, boots, clamps,
rubber coupling and center bearing rubber for cracks, deterioration, or damage.
Replace any damaged parts and if necessary, repack the grease.
Checking fluid levels
When checking engine oil, engine coolant, brake fluid, and washer fluid, always
be sure to clean the area around any
filer plug, drain plug, or dipstick before
checking or draining any lubricant or
fluid. This is especially important in
dusty or sandy areas and when the vehicle is used on unpaved roads. Cleaning
the plug and dipstick areas will prevent
dirt and grit from entering the engine
and other mechanisms that could be
damaged.
Engine oil
Engine oil
Checking the engine oil level
Engine oil is used for lubricating, cooling,
and operating various hydraulic components in the engine. Engine oil consumption while driving is normal, and it is
necessary to check and refil the engine
oil regularly. Also, check and refil the oil
level within the recommended maintenance schedule to prevent deterioration
of oil performance.
Check the engine oil following the below
procedure.
Smartstream G2.5 GDi
1. Be sure the vehicle is on level ground.
2.Start the engine and allow it to reach
normal operating temperature.
3.Turn the engine off, remove the oil
filer cap and pull the dipstick out.
Wait for 15 minutes for the oil to
return to the oil pan.
4.Wipe the dipstick clean and re-insert it
fuly.
5.Pull the dipstick out again and check
the level. Check if the oil level is
between the F-L line, and if it is below
the L line, add enough oil to bring the
level to F line.
WARNING
Radiator hose
Be very careful not to touch the radiator
hose when checking or adding the

--- Page 456 ---
Maintenance
engine oil as it may be hot enough to
burn you.
CAUTION
When you wipe the oil level gauge, you
should wipe it with a clean cloth. When
mixed with debris, it can cause engine
damage.
Smartstream G2.5 GDi
Use a funnel to help prevent oil from
being spilled on engine components.
Use only the specified engine oil. (Refer
to "Recommended lubricants and capacities" on page 9-7.)
- Do not spill engine oil when adding or
changing engine oil. Wipe off spiled
oil immediately.
- The engine oil consumption may
increase while you break in a new
vehicle and it will be stabilized after
driving 4,000 miles (6,000 km).
- The engine oil consumption can be
affected by driving habits, climate
conditions, traffic conditions, oil quality, etc. Therefore, it is recommended
that you inspect the engine oil level
regularly and refil it if necessary.
Changing the engine oil and filter
The lubrication, rust prevention, cooling,
and cleaning effect of the engine oil will
gradually degrade during its use. Have
the engine oil and filter changed by an
authorized Kia dealer according to the
Engine Oil Life Management System
Engine oil
instructions or the maintenance schedule.
- If the maintenance schedule to
replace engine oil is exceeded, the
engine oil performance may deteriorate, and the engine condition may be
affected. Therefore, replace the
engine oil according to the maintenance schedule.
- To keep the engine in optimal condition, use the recommended engine oil
and filter. If the recommended engine
oil and filter are not used replace it
according to the maintenance schedule under severe usage conditions.
- The purpose of the maintenance
schedule for engine oil replacement is
to prevent oil deterioration and it is
irrelevant to oil consumption. Check
and refil engine oil regularly.
WARNING
Used engine oil
Used engine oil may cause irritation or
cancer of the skin if left in contact with
the skin for prolonged periods of time.
Used engine oil contains chemicals that
have caused cancer in laboratory animals. Always protect your skin by washing your hands thoroughly with soap
and warm water as soon as possible
after handling used oil. Do not leave
used engine oil within the reach of children.
NOTICE
- When the oil pressure is low due to
insufficient engine oil, the Engine Oil
Pressure ( ) warning light will
appear.
In addition, the enhanced engine protection system, which limits the
engine's power is activated and the

--- Page 457 ---
Maintenance Malfunction Indicator Lamp ( )
will appear when the vehicle is driven
in this state continuously.
- When oil pressure is restored, the
Engine Oil Pressure warning light will
turn off and the engine power will no
longer be limited.
- When the engine oil pressure is
restored, the warning light and the
enhanced engine protection system
will turn off after the engine is
restarted.
CAUTION
The engine oil is very hot immediately
after the vehicle has been driven and
can cause burns during replacement.
Replace the engine oil after the engine
oil has cooled down.
NOTICE
Never add any additives to the engine
oil. Engine oil additives can change the
properties of engine oil and may cause
serious engine failure.
Engine coolant
Engine coolant
The high-pressure cooling system has a
reservoir filed with year round antifreeze coolant. The reservoir is filed at
the factory.
Check the antifreeze protection and
coolant level at least once a year, at the
beginning of the winter season, and
before traveling to a colder climate.
CAUTION
- When the engine overheats from low
engine coolant, suddenly adding
engine coolant may cause cracks in
the engine. To prevent damage, add
engine coolant slowly in small quantities.
- Do not drive with no engine coolant. It
may cause water pump failure and
engine seizure, etc.
Checking the coolant level
Check the condition and connections of
all cooling system hoses and heater
hoses. Replace any swolen or deteriorated hoses.
The coolant level should be filed
between the MAX and the MIN marks on
the side of the coolant reservoir when
the engine is cool.
If frequent additions are required, have
the system inspected by an authorized
Kia dealer.

--- Page 458 ---
Maintenance
CAUTION
Removing engine
coolant reservoir cap
Never attempt to
remove the engine
coolant reservoir cap
while the engine is operating or hot.
Doing so might lead to cooling system
and engine damage. Also, hot coolant or
steam could cause serious personal
injury.
Turn the engine off and wait until it cools
down. Use extreme care when removing
the engine coolant reservoir cap. Wrap a
thick towel around it, and turn it counterclockwise slowly to the first stop. Step
back while the pressure is released from
the cooling system.
When you are sure all the pressure has
been released, press down on the cap,
using a thick towel, and continue turning
counterclockwise to remove it.
Even if the engine is not operating, do
not remove the engine coolant reservoir
cap or the drain plug while the engine
and radiator are hot. Hot coolant and
steam may still blow out under pressure,
causing serious injury.
WARNING
The electric motor
(cooling fan) is controlled by engine coolant temperature,
refrigerant pressure
and vehicle speed. It
may sometimes operate even when the
engine is not running. Use extreme caution when working near the blades of
the cooling fan so that you are not
injured by a rotating fan blades. As the
engine coolant temperature decreases,
Engine coolant
the electric motor will automatically shut
off. This is a normal condition.
The electric motor (cooling fan) may
operate until you disconnect the negative battery cable.
Check the condition and connections of
all cooling system hoses and heater
hoses. Replace any swolen or deteriorated hoses.
The coolant level should be filed
between MAX and MIN (F and L) marks
on the side of the coolant reservoir when
the engine is cool.
If the coolant level is low, add enough
distiled (deionized) or soft water. Bring
the level to MAX (F), but do not overfil.
If frequent additions are required, have
the system inspected by an authorized
Kia dealer.
NOTICE
Make sure the coolant cap is properly
closed after refil of coolant. Otherwise
the engine could be overheated while
driving.
1. Check if the engine coolant reservoir
cap label is straight In front.
2.Make sure that the tiny protrusions
inside the coolant cap are securely
interlocked.

--- Page 459 ---
Maintenance Recommended engine coolant
- When adding coolant, use only deionized water or soft water for your vehicle and never mix hard water in the
coolant filed at the factory. An
improper coolant mixture can result in
serious malfunction or engine damage.
- The engine in your vehicle has aluminum engine parts and must be protected by an ethylene-glycol with
phosphate based coolant to prevent
corrosion and freezing.
- DO NOT USE alcohol or methanol
coolant or mix them with the specified
coolant.
- Do not use a solution that contains
more than 60% antifreeze or less than
35% antifreeze, which would reduce
the effectiveness of the solution.
For mixture percentage, refer to the following table.
Ambient Temperature
Mixture Percentage (volume)
Antifreeze Water
5°F (-15°C) 35 65
-13°F (-25°C) 40 60
-31°F (-35°C) 50 50
-49°F (-45°C) 60 40
WARNING
Engine coolant reservoir cap
Do not remove the
engine coolant reservoir cap when the
engine and radiator are hot. Scalding hot
coolant and steam may blow out under
pressure causing serious injury.
Engine coolant
Changing the coolant
Have the coolant replaced by an authorized Kia dealer.
CAUTION
Put a thick cloth around the radiator cap
before refiling the coolant in order to
prevent the coolant from overflowing
into engine parts such as the alternator.
WARNING
Coolant
- Do not use engine coolant or antifreeze in the washer fluid reservoir.
- Radiator coolant can severely obscure
visibility when sprayed on the windshield and may cause loss of vehicle
control or damage the paint and body
trim.

--- Page 460 ---
Maintenance
Brake fluid
Checking the brake fluid level
Check the fluid level in the reservoir
periodically. The fluid level should be
between MAX and MIN marks on the
side of the reservoir.
1. Before removing the reservoir cap
and adding brake fluid, clean the area
around the reservoir cap thoroughly
to prevent brake fluid contamination.
2.Periodically check that the fluid level
in the brake fluid reservoir is between
MIN and MAX. The level will fal with
accumulated mileage. This is a normal
condition associated with the wear of
the brake linings.
If the fluid level is excessively low,
have the system checked by an
authorized Kia dealer.
Use only the specified brake fluid. (Refer
to "Recommended lubricants and capacities" on page 9-7.)
Never mix different types of fluid.
WARNING
Loss of brake fluid
In the event the brake system requires
frequent additions of fluid, have the system inspected by an authorized Kia
dealer.
WARNING
Brake fluid
When changing and adding brake fluid,
handle it carefuly. Do not let it come in
Brake fluid
contact with your eyes. If brake fluid
should come in contact with your eyes,
immediately flush them with a large
quantity of fresh tap water. Have your
eyes examined by a doctor as soon as
possible.
CAUTION
Do not allow brake fluid to contact the
vehicle's body paint, as paint damage
will result. Brake fluid, which has been
exposed to open air for an extended
time should never be used as its quality
cannot be guaranteed. It should be
properly disposed. Don't put in the
wrong kind of fluid. A few drops of mineral-based oil, such as engine oil, in your
brake system can damage brake system
parts.

--- Page 461 ---
Maintenance Washer fluid
Checking the washer fluid level
The reservoir is translucent so that you
can check the level with a quick visual
inspection.
- Check the fluid level in the washer
fluid reservoir and add fluid if necessary. Plain water may be used if
washer fluid is not available.
However, use washer solvent with
antifreeze characteristics in cold climates to prevent freezing.
WARNING
Washer fluid
- Do not use radiator coolant or antifreeze in the washer fluid reservoir.
- Radiator coolant can severely obscure
visibility when sprayed on the windshield and may cause loss of vehicle
control or damage to paint and body
trim.
- Windshield Washer fluid agents contain some amounts of alcohol and can
be flammable under certain circumstances. Do not allow sparks or flame
to contact the washer fluid or the
washer fluid reservoir. Damage to the
vehicle or occupants could occur.
- Windshield washer fluid is poisonous
to humans and animals. Do not drink
and avoid contacting windshield
washer fluid. Serious injury or death
could occur.
Washer fluid
Parking brake
Checking the parking brake
- Check whether the stroke is within
specification when the parking brake
pedal is depressed with 66 lbs. (30 kg,
294 N) of force. Also, the parking
brake alone should securely hold the
vehicle on a fairly steep grade. If the
stroke is more or less than specified,
have the system serviced by an
authorized Kia dealer.
Stroke: 5~6 click at a force of 66lbf
(30kgf, 294 N)

--- Page 462 ---
Maintenance
Air cleaner filter
Replacing air cleaner filter
Operation
1. Pull up the lever (1) on the air cleaner
cover and release the lock.
2.Rotate the fixed lever on the filter and
loosen the lock.
3.Replace the air cleaner filter.
4.Assemble in reverse order.
CAUTION
- Do not drive with the air cleaner
removed; this will result in excessive
engine wear.
- When removing the air cleaner filter,
be careful that dust or dirt does not
enter the air intake, or damage may
result.
- Use parts for replacement from an
authorized Kia dealer.
Air cleaner filter
Climate control air filter
Filter inspection
The climate control air filter should be
replaced according to the maintenance
schedule. If the vehicle is operated in
severely air-polluted cities or on dusty
rough roads for a long period, it should
be inspected more frequently and
replaced earlier. When you replace the
climate control air filter, replace it performing the following procedure, and be
careful to avoid damaging other components.
Operation
1. Open the glove box and remove the
stopper (1).
2.With the glove box open, pull the support strap.
3.Remove the climate control air filter
cover by pulling out both sides of the
cover.

--- Page 463 ---
Maintenance Wiper blades
4.Replace the climate control air filter.
5.Assemble in reverse order.
NOTICE
Wiper blades
When the wipers no longer clean adequately, the blades may be worn or
cracked, and require replacement.
To prevent damage to the wiper arms or
other components, do not attempt to
move the wipers manually.
The use of a non-specified wiper blade
could result in wiper malfunction and
failure.
Blade inspection
When replacing the climate control air
filter install it properly. Otherwise, the
system may produce noise and the
effectiveness of the filter may be
reduced.
NOTICE
Commercial hot waxes applied by automatic car washes have been known to
make the windshield difficult to clean.
Contamination of either the windshield
or the wiper blades with foreign matter
can reduce the effectiveness of the
windshield wipers. Common sources of
contamination are insects, tree sap, and
hot wax treatments used by some commercial car washes. If the blades are not
wiping properly, clean both the window
and the blades with a good cleaner or
mild detergent, and rinse thoroughly
with clean water.
CAUTION
To prevent damage to the wiper blades,
do not use gasoline, kerosene, paint
thinner, or other solvents on or near
them.

--- Page 464 ---
Maintenance
Blade replacement
When the wipers no longer clean adequately, the blades may be worn or
cracked, and require replacement.
CAUTION
To prevent damage to the wiper arms or
other components, do not attempt to
move the wipers manually.
CAUTION
The use of a non-specified wiper blade
could result in wiper malfunction and
failure.
Front wiper blade replacement
For your convenience and to prevent
hood paint damage, you must move the
windshield wiper blades to the service
position as follows.
After turning off the engine, move the
wiper switch to the single wiping (MIST)
position within 20 seconds and hold the
switch more than 2 seconds until the
wiper blade is in the fuly up position.
CAUTION
Wiper arms
- Do not allow the wiper arm to fal
against the windshield, since it may
chip or crack the windshield.
- Do not pull the wiper arm forward,
since arm could chip hood paint.
Type A (if equipped)
Wiper blades
1. Raise the wiper arm.
2.Lift up the wiper blade clip. Then pull
down the blade assembly and remove
it.
3.Install the new blade assembly.
4.Make sure that both blade assemblies
are installed firmly by trying to pull it
slightly.
5.Return the wiper arm onto the windshield.
6.Turn ignition to the ON position and
wiper arms will return to the normal
operating position.
Type B (if equipped)
1. Raise the wiper arm and turn the
wiper blade assembly to expose the
plastic locking clip.
2.Compress the clip and slide the blade
assembly downward.

--- Page 465 ---
Maintenance OCV071053L
3.Lift it off the arm.
4.Install the blade assembly in the
reverse order of removal.
Rear wiper blade replacement
1. Within 20 seconds after the vehicle
ignition is OFF, move the wiper lever
to MIST position for over 2 seconds
until the wiper moves down to the
bottom middle part.
2.Raise the wiper arm and pull out the
wiper blade assembly.
3.Lift up the wiper blade, and pull the
blade to remove it.
4.Install the new blade assembly by
inserting the center part into the slot
Wiper blades
in the wiper arm until it clicks into
place.
5.Make sure the blade assembly is
installed firmly by trying to pull it
slightly.
If the replacement is complete, put
down the wiper arm to place it on the
rear windshield, and turn the vehicle
ignition to ON and operate the wipers
to check the blade is installed correctly.
To prevent damage to the wiper arms or
other components, have the wiper blade
replaced by an authorized Kia dealer.
CAUTION
If the wiper arm receives too much force
while pulling the blade, the center part
may be damaged.
CAUTION
- The wiper could not operate for
approx. 10 seconds when the wiper is
operated without washer fluid or the
blades are frozen. This is not a malfunction, it is a wiper protection system activated by motor overload
circuit within the wiper motor.
- The front windshield should be
cleaned with water hose and wiped
with clean towel with wiper blades
raised up. Also, the wiper blades
should be wiped clean when the
grease or wax is applied to the blades.

--- Page 466 ---
Maintenance
Battery
For best battery service
- Keep the battery securely mounted.
- Keep the battery top clean and dry.
- Keep the terminals and connections
clean, tight, and coated with petroleum jely or terminal grease.
- Rinse any spiled electrolyte from the
battery immediately with a solution of
water and baking soda.
- If the vehicle is not going to be used
for an extended time, disconnect the
battery cables.
NOTICE
Your vehicle is equipped with maintenance free battery. If your vehicle is
equipped with the battery marked with
LOWER and UPPER on the side, you can
check the electrolyte level. The electrolyte level should be between LOWER
and UPPER. If the electrolyte level is low,
it needs to add distiled (demineralized)
water (Never add sulfuric acid or other
electrolyte). When refil, be careful not to
splash the battery and adjacent components. And do not overfil the battery
cels. It can cause corrosion on other
parts. Make sure that the cell caps are
tightened.
Contact an authorized Kia dealer.
Battery
WARNING
spark.
Risk of explosion
Keep lit cigarettes and all other
flames or sparks away from
the battery.
The battery contains hydrogen
-- a highly combustible gas
which will explode if it comes
in contact with a flame or
Keep batteries out of the reach
of children because batteries
contain highly corrosive SUL-
FURIC ACID and electrolytes.
Do not allow battery acid to contact your
skin, eyes, clothing or paint finish.
Wear eye protection when
charging or working near a
battery. Always provide ventilation when working in an
enclosed space.
Always read the following
instructions carefuly when
handling a battery.
If any electrolyte gets into
your eyes, flush your eyes with
clean water for at least 15 minutes and get immediate medical attention. If electrolyte gets on your
skin, thoroughly wash the contacted
area. If you feel pain or burning sensation, get medical attention immediately.
An inappropriately disposed
battery can be harmful to the
environment and human
health. Dispose the battery
according to your local law(s) or regulation.
The battery contains lead. Do
not dispose of it after use.

--- Page 467 ---
Maintenance Please return the battery to an authorized Kia dealer to be recycled.
Never attempt to recharge the battery
when the battery cables are connected.
WARNING
Risk of electrocution
Never touch the electrical ignition system while the vehicle is running. This
system works with high voltage, which
can "zap" you.
NOTICE
If you connect unauthorized electronic
devices to the battery, the battery may
be discharged. Never use unauthorized
devices.
WARNING
Recharging battery
Never attempt to recharge the battery
when the battery cables are connected.
WARNING
Battery lead compound
Battery posts, terminals, and related
accessories contain lead and lead compounds. Wash hands after handling.
Battery
Battery capacity label
Example
* The actual battery label in the vehicle
may differ from the illustration.
1. The Kia model name of battery
2.The nominal capacity (in Ampere
hours)
3.The nominal reserve capacity (in min.)
4.The nominal voltage
5.The cold-test current in amperes by
SAE
6.The cold-test current in amperes by
EN
Battery recharging
Your vehicle has a maintenance-free,
calcium-based battery.
- If the battery becomes discharged in a
short time (because, for example, the
headlamps or interior lights were left
on while the vehicle was not in use),
recharge it by slow charging (trickle)
for 10 hours.
- If the battery gradually discharges
because of high electric load while the
vehicle is being used, recharge it at 20
~ 30 A for two hours.
When recharging the battery, observe
the following precautions:
- The battery must be removed from
the vehicle and placed in an area with
good ventilation.
- Do not allow cigarettes, sparks, or
flame near the battery.

--- Page 468 ---
Maintenance
- Watch the battery during charging,
and stop or reduce the charging rate
in following cases:
1. the battery cels begin gassing
(boiling) violently
2.the electrolyte temperature of any
cell exceeds 120 °F (49 °C).
- Wear eye protection when checking
the battery during charging.
- Before performing maintenance or
recharging the battery, turn off al
accessories and stop the vehicle.
- Disconnect the battery charger in the
following order.
1. Turn off the battery charger main
switch.
2.Unhook the negative clamp from
the negative battery terminal.
3.Unhook the positive clamp from the
positive battery terminal.
- The negative battery cable must be
removed first and installed last when
the battery is disconnected.
CAUTION
AGM battery
- Absorbent Glass Mat (AGM) batteries
are maintenance free and have the
AGM battery serviced by an authorized Kia dealer.
For charging your AGM battery, use
only fuly automatic battery chargers
that are specially developed for AGM
batteries.
- When replacing the AGM battery, use
parts for replacement from an authorized Kia dealer.
- Do not open or remove the cap on top
of the battery. This may cause leaks
of internal electrolyte that could result
in severe injury.
Battery
Reset items
The following items should be reset after
the battery has been discharged or the
battery has been disconnected.
- Auto up/down window (Refer to "Window opening and closing" on page 4-
34)
- Trip computer (Refer to "Trip information (trip computer)" on page 4-77)
- Climate control system (Refer to
"Automatic climate control system" on
page 4-115)
- Sunroof (Refer to "Panoramic sunroof
(if equipped)" on page 4-44)
- Driver's seat position (Refer to "Driver
Position Memory System (if
equipped)" on page 4-20)
- Trip computer information settings
(Refer to "LCD displays" on page 4-77)
- Radio presets

--- Page 469 ---
Maintenance Tires and wheels
For proper maintenance, safety,
and maximum fuel economy,
you must always maintain the
recommended tire pressures and
stay within the load limits and
weight distribution recommended for your vehicle.
Recommended cold tire inflation pressures
Al tire pressures should be
checked when the tires are cold.
"Cold Tires" means the vehicle
has not been driven for at least
three hours or driven less than 1
mile (1.6 km).
Recommended pressures must
be maintained for the best ride,
vehicle handling, and minimum
tire wear.
For recommended pressure,
refer to "Tires and wheels" on page 8-
29.
Al specifications (sizes and pressures) can be found on a label
attached to the driver's side center pilar.
Tires and wheels
WARNING
Tire underinflation
Inflate your tires consistent with
the instructions provided in this
manual. Regularly check the tire
inflation pressure, and correct it
as needed; at least twice a
month and before any long trips
on the road. If you fail to observe
this precaution, you may be driving on underinflated tires, which
may not only compromise your
vehicle's driving stability, but
may also lead to tire damage and
the risk of an accident. This risk is
much higher on hot days and
when driving for long periods at
high speeds.
Failure to maintain specified
pressure may result in excessive
wear, poor handling, reduced
fuel economy, deformation of
tire and/or wheel, harsh ride conditions, possibility for additional
damage from road hazards, or
result in tire failure.

--- Page 470 ---
Maintenance
Tire pressure
Always observe the following:
- Check tire pressure when the
tires are cold. (After vehicle has
been parked for at least three
hours or hasn't been driven
more than 1 mile (1.6 km) since
startup.)
- Check the pressure of your
spare tire each time you check
the pressure of other tires. (if
equipped)
- Never overload your vehicle.
Be careful not to overload a
vehicle luggage rack if your
vehicle is equipped with one.
- Warm tires normally exceed
recommended cold tire pressures by 4 ~ 6 psi (28 ~ 41 kPa).
Do not release air from warm
tires to adjust the pressure or
the tires will be underinflated.
WARNING
Tire Inflation
Overinflation or underinflation
can reduce tire life, adversely
affect vehicle handling, and lead
to sudden tire failure. This could
result in loss of vehicle control
and potential injury.
Tires and wheels
Checking tire inflation pressure
Check your tires once a month or
more.
Use a good quality gauge to
check tire pressure. You cannot
tell if your tires are properly
inflated simply by looking at
them. Radial tires may look properly inflated even when they're
underinflated.
Check the tire's inflation pressure
when the tires are cold. "Cold"
means your vehicle has been sitting or at least three hours or
driven no more than 1 mile (1.6
km).
1.Remove the valve cap from the
tire valve stem.
2.Press the tire gauge firmly
onto the valve to get a pressure measurement. If the cold
tire inflation pressure matches
the proper pressure on the tire
and loading information label,
no further adjustment is necessary.
3.If the pressure is low, add air
until you reach the recommended amount.
4.If you overfil the tire, release
air by pushing on the metal
stem in the center of the tire
valve.
5.Recheck the tire pressure with
the tire gauge.

--- Page 471 ---
Maintenance Tires and wheels
6.Be sure to put the valve caps
back on the valve stems. They
help prevent leaks by keeping
out dirt and moisture.
Inspect your tires frequently for
proper inflation as well as wear
and damage. Always use a tire
pressure gauge.
Tires with too much or too little
pressure wear unevenly. This
could result in poor handling,
loss of vehicle control, and sudden tire failure leading to accifind either of these conditions.
Replace the tire if fabric or cord
is visible. After rotation, be sure
to bring the front and rear tire
pressures to specification and
check lug nut tightness. (proper
torque is 79 ~ 94 lbf·ft [11 ~ 13
kgf·m])
Refer to "Tires and wheels" on page 8-
29.
Disc brake pads should be
inspected for wear whenever
tires are rotated.
dents, injuries, and even death.
The recommended cold tire pres-
With a full-size spare tire (if equipped)
sure for your vehicle can be
found in this manual and on the
tire label located on the driver's
side center pilar.
Tire rotation
To equalize tread wear, it is recommended that the tires be
rotated every 8,000 miles
(13,000 km) or sooner if irregular
wear develops.
During rotation, check the tires
for correct balance.
When rotating tires, check for
uneven wear and damage.
Abnormal wear is usually caused
by incorrect tire pressure,
improper wheel alignment, out
of-balance wheels, severe braking or severe cornering. Look for
bumps or bulges in the tread or
side of tire. Replace the tire if you
Without a spare tire
Directional tires (if equipped)
Rotate radial tires that have an
asymmetric tread pattern only

--- Page 472 ---
Maintenance
from front to rear and not from
right to left.
WARNING
Mixing tires
Do not mix bias ply and radial ply
tires under any circumstances.
This may cause unusual handling
characteristics which can lead to
loss of control and an accident.
Wheel alignment and tire balance
The wheels on your vehicle were
aligned and balanced carefuly at
the factory to give you the longest tire life and best overall performance.
If you notice unusual tire wear or
your vehicle pulling one way or
the other, the alignment may
need to be reset.
If you notice your vehicle vibrating when driving on a smooth
road, your wheels may need to
be rebalanced.
CAUTION
Wheel weight
Improper wheel weights can
damage your vehicle's aluminum wheels. Use only approved
wheel weights.
Tires and wheels
Tire replacement
If the tire is worn evenly, a tread
wear indicator will appear as a
solid band across the tread.
[A] : Tread wear indicator
This shows there is less than 1/16
in (1.6 mm) of tread left on the
tire. Replace the tire when this
happens.
Do not wait for the band to
appear across the entire tread
before replacing the tire.
The Anti-lock Brake System
(ABS) works by comparing the
speed of the wheels. The tire size
affects wheel speed. When
replacing tires, all 4 tires must
use the same size originally supplied with the vehicle. Using tires
of a different size can cause the
ABS and Electronic Stability Control (ESC) to work irregularly.
It is best to replace all four tires
at the same time. If that is not
possible, or necessary, then
replace the two front or two rear
tires as a pair. Replacing just one
tire can seriously affect your
vehicle's handling.

--- Page 473 ---
Maintenance NOTICE
We recommend that when
replacing tires, use the same
originally supplied with the vehicles. If not, that affects driving
performance.
Wheel replacement
When replacing the metal wheels
for any reason, make sure the
new wheels are equivalent to the
original factory units in diameter, rim width and offset.
A wheel with an incorrect size
may adversely affect many
things: wheel and bearing life,
braking and stopping abilities,
handling characteristics, ground
clearance, body-to-tire clearance, snow chain clearance,
speedometer and odometer calibration, headlamp aiming and
bumper height.
CAUTION
Wheels
Wheels that do not meet Kia
specifications may fit poorly and
result in damage to the vehicle or
unusual handling and poor vehicle control.
Tire traction
Tire traction can be reduced if
you drive on worn tires, tires that
are improperly inflated or on slippery road surfaces.
Tires and wheels
Tires should be replaced when
tread wear indicators appear.
Slow down whenever there is
rain, snow or ice on the road to
reduce the possibility of losing
control of the vehicle.
Tire maintenance
In addition to proper inflation,
correct wheel alignment helps to
decrease tire wear.
If you find a tire is worn
unevenly, have your dealer
check the wheel alignment.
Make sure the newly installed
tires are balanced correctly to
increase vehicle ride comfort and
tire life. In addition, always rebalance the tire when the tire is
removed from the wheel.
Tire sidewall labeling
This information identifies and
describes the fundamental characteristics of the tire and also
provides the Tire Identification
Number (TIN) for safety standard
certification.
The TIN can be used to identify
the tire in case of a recal.

--- Page 474 ---
Maintenance
1. Manufacturer or brand
name
Manufacturer or Brand name is
shown.
2. Tire size designation
A tire's sidewal is marked with a
tire size designation. You will
need this information when
selecting replacement tires for
your vehicle. The following
explains what the letters and
numbers in the tire size designation mean.
Example tire size designation:
(These numbers are provided as
an example only; your tire size
designator could vary depending on your vehicle.)
P235/55R19 105V
- P: Applicable vehicle type (tires
marked with the prefix "P" are
intended for use on passenger
vehicles or light trucks; however, not all tires have this
marking).
僅235: Tire width in milimeters.
僅55: Aspect ratio. The tire's section height as a percentage of
its width.
- R: Tire construction code
(Radial).
僅19: Rim diameter in inches.
僅105: Load Index, a numerical
code associated with the maximum load the tire can carry.
Tires and wheels
- V: Speed Rating Symbol. See
the speed rating chart in this
section for additional information.
Wheel size designation
Wheels are also marked with
important information that you
need if you ever have to replace
one. The following explains what
the letters and numbers in the
wheel size designation mean.
Example wheel size designation:
7.5J x 19
僅7.5: Rim width in inches.
- J: Rim contour designation.
僅19: Rim diameter in inches.
Tire speed ratings
The chart below lists many of the
different speed ratings currently
being used for passenger vehicle
tires. The speed rating is part of
the tire size designation on the
sidewal of the tire. This symbol
corresponds to that tire's
designed maximum safe operating speed.
Speed Rating
Symbol Maximum Speed
S 112 mph (180 km/h)
T 118 mph (190 km/h)
H 130 mph (210 km/h)
V 149 mph (240 km/h)

--- Page 475 ---
Maintenance Speed Rating
Symbol Maximum Speed
W 168 mph (270 km/h)
Y 186 mph (300 km/h)
3. Checking tire life
Any tires that are over 6 years
old, based on the manufacturing
date, should be replaced by new
ones. You can find the manufacturing date on the tire sidewal
(possibly on the inside of the
wheel), displaying the DOT code.
The DOT code is a series of numbers on a tire consisting of numbers and English letters. The
manufacturing date is designated by the last four digits
(characters) of the DOT code.
DOT: XXXX XXXX OOOO
The front part of the DOT means
a plant code number, tire size
and tread pattern and the last
four numbers indicate week and
year manufactured.
For example:
DOT XXXX XXXX 1623 represents that the tire was produced in the 16th week of 2023.
CAUTION
Tire age
Replace tires within the recommended time frame. Failure to
replace tires as recommended
can result in sudden tire failure,
Tires and wheels
which could lead to a loss of control and an accident.
4. Tire ply composition and
material
The number of layers or plies of
rubber- coated fabric in the tire.
Tire manufacturers also must
indicate the materials in the tire,
which include steel, nylon, polyester, and others. The letter "R"
means radial ply construction;
the letter "D" means diagonal or
bias ply construction; and the letter "B" means belted-bias ply
construction.
5. Maximum Inflation Pressure
This number is the greatest
amount of air pressure that
should be put in the tire. Do not
exceed the maximum inflation
pressure. Refer to "Certification
label" on page 5-72 for recommended inflation pressure.
6. Maximum load rating
This number indicates the maximum load in kilograms and
pounds that can be carried by
the tire. When replacing the tires
on the vehicle, always use a tire
that has the same load rating as
the factory installed tire.

--- Page 476 ---
Maintenance
7. Uniform Tire Quality Grading
Quality grades can be found
where applicable on the tire sidewal between tread shoulder and
maximum section width.
For example:
- Treadwear 200
- Traction AA
- Temperature A
Tires degrade over time, even
when they are not being used.
Regardless of the remaining
tread, we recommend that tires
be replaced after approximately
six (6) years of normal service.
Heat caused by hot climate or
frequent high loading conditions
can accelerate the aging process.
Tread wear
The tread wear grade is a comparative rating based on the
wear rate of the tire when tested
under controlled conditions on a
specified government test
course. For example, a tire
graded 150 would wear one-anda-half times (11⁄2) as well on the
government course as a tire
graded 100.
The relative performance of tires
depends upon the actual conditions of their use. Performance
may depart significantly from the
norm due to variations in driving
Tires and wheels
habits, service practices and differences in road characteristics
and climate.
These grades are molded on the
side-wals of passenger vehicle
tires. The tires available as standard or optional equipment on
your vehicle may vary with
respect to grade.
Traction - AA, A, B & C
The traction grades, from highest
to lowest, are AA, A, B and C.
Those grades represent the tire's
ability to stop on wet pavement
as measured under controlled
conditions on specified government test surfaces of asphalt and
concrete. A tire marked C may
have poor traction performance.
The traction grade assigned to
this tire is based on straightahead braking traction tests, and
does not include acceleration,
cornering, hydroplaning, or peak
traction characteristics.
Temperature -A, B & C
The temperature grades are A
(the highest), B and C representing the tire's resistance to the
generation of heat and its ability
to dissipate heat when tested
under controlled conditions on a
specified indoor laboratory test
wheel.

--- Page 477 ---
Maintenance Sustained high temperature can
cause the material of the tire to
degenerate and reduce tire life,
and excessive temperature can
lead to sudden tire failure. The
grade C corresponds to a level of
performance which all passenger
vehicle tires must meet under the
Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standard No. 109. Grades B and
A represent higher levels of performance on the laboratory test
wheel than the minimum
required by law.
Tire terminology and definitions
Refer to the following for detailed
definitions of the terms that are
found in the tire description.
Air Pressure The amount of air
inside the tire pressing outward
on the tire. Air pressure is
expressed in pounds per square
inch (psi) or kilopascal (kPa).
Accessory Weight The combined weight of optional accessories. Some examples of
optional accessories are automatic transmission, power seats,
and air conditioning.
Aspect Ratio The relationship of
a tire's height to its width.
Belt A rubber coated layer of
cords that is located between the
plies and the tread. Cords may
Tires and wheels
be made from steel or other reinforcing materials.
Bead The tire bead contains steel
wires wrapped by steel cords
that hold the tire onto the rim.
Bias Ply Tire A pneumatic tire in
which the plies are laid at alternate angles less than 90 degrees
to the centerline of the tread.
Cold Tire Pressure The amount
of air pressure in a tire, measured in pounds per square inch
(psi) or kilopascals (kPa) before a
tire has built up heat from driving.
Curb Weight The weight of a
motor vehicle with standard and
optional equipment (including
the maximum capacity of fuel, oil
and coolant), but without passengers and cargo.
DOT Markings A code molded
into the sidewal of a tire signifying that the tire is in compliance
with the U.S. Department of
Transportation motor vehicle
safety standards. The DOT code
includes the Tire Identification
Number (TIN), an alphanumeric
designator which can also identify the tire manufacturer, production plant, brand and date of
production.
GVWR Gross Vehicle Weight
Rating
GAWR FRT Gross Axle Weight
Rating for the Front axle.

--- Page 478 ---
Maintenance
GAWR RR Gross Axle Weight
Rating for the Rear axle.
Intended Outboard Sidewall
The side of an asymmetrical tire
that must always face outward
when mounted on a vehicle.
Kilopascal (kPa) The metric unit
for air pressure.
Light truck (LT) tire A tire designated by its manufacturer as primarily intended for use on
lightweight trucks or multipurpose passenger vehicles.
Load ratings The maximum load
that a tire is rated to carry for a
given inflation pressure.
Load Index An assigned number
ranging from 1 to 279 that corresponds to the load carrying
capacity of a tire.
Maximum Inflation Pressure
The maximum air pressure to
which a cold tire may be inflated.
The maximum air pressure is
molded onto the sidewal.
Maximum Load Rating The load
rating for a tire at the maximum
inflation pressure for that tire.
Maximum Loaded Vehicle
Weight The sum of curb weight;
accessory weight; vehicle capacity weight; and production
options weight.
Normal Occupant Weight The
number of occupants a vehicle is
Tires and wheels
designed to seat multiplied by
150 lbs. (68 kg).
Occupant Distribution Designated seating positions.
Outward Facing Sidewall The
side of a asymmetrical tire that
has a particular side that faces
outward when mounted on a
vehicle. The outward facing sidewal bears white lettering or
bears manufacturer, brand, and/
or model name molding that is
higher or deeper than the same
moldings on the inner facing
sidewal.
Passenger (P-Metric) Tire A tire
used on passenger cars and
some light duty trucks and multipurpose vehicles.
Ply A layer of rubber-coated parallel cords.
Pneumatic tire A mechanical
device made of rubber, chemicals, fabric and steel or other
materials, that, when mounted
on an automotive wheel, provides the traction and contains
the gas or fluid that sustains the
load.
Production options weight The
combined weight of installed
regular production options
weighing over 5 lbs. (2.3 kg) in
excess of the standard items
which they replace, not previously considered in curb weight
or accessory weight. Examples

--- Page 479 ---
Maintenance include heavy duty brakes, ride
levelers, roof rack, heavy duty
battery, and special trim.
Recommended Inflation Pressure Vehicle manufacturer's recommended tire inflation pressure
and shown on the tire placard.
Radial Ply Tire A pneumatic tire
in which the ply cords that
extend to the beads are laid at
90 degrees to the centerline of
the tread.
Rim A metal support for a tire
and upon which the tire beads
are seated.
Sidewall The portion of a tire
between the tread and the bead.
Speed Rating An alphanumeric
code assigned to a tire indicating
the maximum speed at which a
tire can operate.
Traction The friction between
the tire and the road surface. The
amount of grip provided.
Tread The portion of a tire that
comes into contact with the road.
Treadwear Indicators Narrow
bands, sometimes caled "wear
bars," that show across the tread
of a tire when only 2/32 inch (1.6
mm) of tread remains.
UTQGS Uniform Tire Quality
Grading Standards, a tire information system that provides
consumers with ratings for a
tire's traction, temperature and
Tires and wheels
treadwear. Ratings are determined by tire manufacturers
using government testing procedures. The ratings are molded
into the sidewal of the tire.
Vehicle Capacity Weight The
weight of designated seating
positions multiplied by 150 lbs.
(68 kg) plus the rated cargo and
luggage load.
Vehicle Maximum Load on the
Tire Load on an individual tire
due to curb and accessory
weight plus maximum occupant
and cargo weight.
Vehicle Normal Load on the
Tire Load on an individual tire
that is determined by distributing
to each axle its share of the curb
weight, accessory weight, and
normal occupant weight and
driving by 2.
Vehicle Placard A label permanently attached to a vehicle
showing the original equipment
tire size and recommended inflation pressure.
All season tires
Kia specifies all season tires on
some models to provide good
performance for use all year
round, including snowy and icy
road conditions.
Al season tires are identified by
ALL SEASON and/or M+S (Mud
and Snow) on the tire sidewal.

--- Page 480 ---
Maintenance
Snow tires have better snow traction than all season tires and
may be more appropriate in
some areas.
Summer tires
Kia specifies summer tires on
some models to provide superior
performance on dry roads.
Summer tire performance is substantially reduced in snow and
ice. Summer tires do not have the
tire traction rating M+S (Mud and
Snow) on the tire side wall. if you
plan to operate your vehicle in
snowy or icy conditions, Kia recommends the use of snow tires
or all season tires on all four
wheels.
Snow tires
If you equip your vehicle with
snow tires, they should be the
same size and have the same
load capacity as the original tires.
Snow tires should be installed on
all four wheels; otherwise, poor
handling may result.
Snow tires should carry 4 psi (28
kPa) more air pressure than the
pressure recommended for the
standard tires on the tire label on
the driver's side of the center pillar, or up to the maximum pressure shown on the tire sidewal,
whichever is less.
Tires and wheels
Do not drive faster than 75 mph
(120 km/h) when your vehicle is
equipped with snow tires.
WARNING
Do not use summer tires at temperatures below 45 °F (7 °C) or
when driving on snow or ice. At
temperatures below 45 °F (7 °C),
summer tires can lose elasticity,
and therefore traction and braking power as well. Change the
tires on your vehicle to winter or
al-weather tires of the same size
as the standard tires of the vehicle. Both types of tires are identified by the M+S (Mud and Snow)
marking. Using summer tires at
very cold temperatures could
cause cracks to form, thereby
damaging the tires permanently.
Tire chains
Tire chains, if necessary, should
be installed on the front wheels.
Be sure that the chains are
installed in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions.
To minimize tire and chain wear,
do not continue to use tire chains
when they are no longer needed.
- When driving on roads covered
with snow or ice, drive at
speeds less than 20 mph (30
km/h).
- Use the SAE "S" class or wire
chains.

--- Page 481 ---
Maintenance Tires and wheels
- If you hear noise caused by
chains contacting the body,
retighten the chain to avoid
contact with the vehicle body.
- To prevent body damage,
retighten the chains after driving 0.3 ~ 0.6 miles (0.5 ~ 1.0
km).
- Do not use tire chains on vehicles equipped with aluminum
wheels. In unavoidable circumstance, use a wire type chain.
- Use wire chains less than 0.47
inches (12 mm) to prevent
damage to the chain's connection.
Radial-ply tires
Radial-ply tires provide improved
tread life, road hazard resistance
and smoother high speed ride.
The radial-ply tires used on this
vehicle are of belted construction, and are selected to complement the ride and handling
characteristics of your vehicle.
Radial-ply tires have the same
load carrying capacity, as biasply or bias belted tires of the
same size, and use the same recommended inflation pressure.
Mixing of radial-ply tires with
bias-ply or bias belted tires is not
recommended. Any combinations of radial-ply and bias-ply or
bias belted tires when used on
the same vehicle will seriously
deteriorate vehicle handling. The
best rule to follow is: Identical
radial-ply tires should always be
used as a set of four.
Longer wearing tires can be
more susceptible to irregular
tread wear. It is very important to
follow the tire rotation interval
shown in this section to achieve
the tread life potential of these
tires. Cuts and punctures in
radial-ply tires are repairable
only in the tread area, because of
sidewal flexing. Consult your tire
dealer for radial-ply tire repairs.

--- Page 482 ---
Maintenance
Fuses
Fuses
Blade type
Cartridge type
If any of your vehicle's lights, accessories, or controls do not work, check the
appropriate circuit fuse. If a fuse has
blown, the element inside the fuse will
melt.
If the electrical system does not work,
first check the driver's side fuse panel.
If the replacement fuse blows, this indicates an electrical problem. Avoid using
the system involved and immediately
consult an authorized Kia dealer.
Three kinds of fuses are used: blade
type for lower amperage rating, cartridge type, and multi fuse for higher
amperage ratings.
WARNING
Multi fuse
BFT
Fuse replacement
- Never replace a fuse with anything
but another fuse of the same rating.
- A higher capacity fuse could cause
damage and possibly a fire.
- Never install a wire or aluminum foil
instead of the proper fuse - even as a
temporary repair. It may cause extensive wiring damage and a possible
fire.
- Do not arbitrarily modify or add-on
electric wiring to the vehicle.
CAUTION
* Left side: Normal, Right side: Blown
* The actual fuse/relay panel label may
differ from equipped items.
A vehicle's electrical system is protected
from electrical overload damage by
fuses.
This vehicle has 2 (or 3) fuse panels, one
located in the driver's side panel bolster,
the other in the engine compartment
near the battery.
Do not use a screwdriver or any other
metal object to remove fuses because it
may cause a short circuit and damage
the system.
NOTICE
- When replacing a fuse, turn the ignition 'OFF' and turn off switches of al
electrical devices then remove battery
(-) terminal.
- Window tinting precaution

--- Page 483 ---
Maintenance Window tint (especially metallic film)
might cause communication disorder
or poor radio reception, and malfunction of the automatic lighting system
due to excessive change of ilumination inside the vehicle. The solution
used might also flow into electric,
electronic devices causing disorder
and failure.
- Window tinting precaution
Window tint (especially metallic film)
might cause communication disorder
or poor radio reception, and malfunction of the automatic lighting system
due to excessive change of ilumination inside the vehicle. The solution
used might also flow into electric,
electronic devices causing disorder
and failure.
WARNING
Electrical fire
Always ensure replacement fuses and
relays are securely fastened when
installed. Failure to do so can result in a
vehicle fire.
Do not remove fuses, relays and terminals fastened with bolts or nuts. The
fuses, relays and terminals may be fastened incompletely, and it may cause a
possible fire. If fuses, relays and terminals fastened with bolts or nuts are
blown, consult with an authorized Kia
dealer.
CAUTION
When replacing a blown fuse or relay,
make sure the new fuse or relay fits
tightly into the clips. Failure to tightly
install the fuse or relay may cause damage to the wiring and electric systems.
Fuses
CAUTION
- Do not input any other objects except
fuses or relays into fuse/relay terminals such as a screwdriver or wiring. It
may cause contact failure and system
malfunction.
- Do not plug in screwdrivers or aftermarket wiring into the terminal originally designed for fuse and relays
only. The electrical system and wiring
of the vehicle interior may be damaged or burned due to contact failure.
- If you directly connect the wire on the
tailamp or replace the bulb which is
over the regulated capacity to install
trailers etc., the inner junction block
can get burned.
WARNING
Electrical wiring repairs
Al electrical repairs should be performed by authorized Kia dealerships
using approved Kia parts. Using other
wiring components, especially when retrofitting multimedia or theft alarm system, car phone or radio may cause
vehicle damage and increase the risk of
a vehicle fire.
NOTICE
Remodeling prohibited
Do not rewire your vehicle in any way as
doing so may affect the performance of
several safety features in your vehicle.
Rewiring your vehicle may also void your
warranty and cause you to be responsible for any subsequent vehicle damage
which may result.

--- Page 484 ---
Maintenance
Inner panel fuse replacement
1. Turn the ignition switch or ENGINE
START/STOP button and all other
switches off.
2.Open the fuse panel cover.
3.Pull the suspected fuse straight out.
Use the removal tool provided in the
main fuse box in the engine compartment.
4.Check the removed fuse; replace it if
it is blown.
Spare fuses are provided in the instrument panel fuse panel (or in the
engine compartment fuse panel).
5.Push in a new fuse of the same rating,
and make sure it fits tightly in the
clips.
If it fits loosely, consult an authorized Kia
dealer.
If you do not have a spare, use a fuse of
the same rating from a circuit you may
not need for operating the vehicle, such
as the cigarette lighter fuse.
If the headlamps or tailamps, stoplights,
courtesy lamp, day time running lights
(DRL) do not work and the fuses are OK,
consult an authorized Kia dealer.
Fuses
Engine compartment fuse
replacement
1. Turn the ignition and all other
switches off.
2.Remove the fuse panel cover by
pressing the tab and pulling the cover
up.
3.Check the removed fuse; replace it if
it is blown. To remove or insert the
fuse, use the fuse puler in the engine
compartment fuse panel.
4.Push in a new fuse of the same rating,
and make sure it fits tightly in the
clips. If it fits loosely, consult an authorized Kia dealer.
CAUTION
After checking the fuse panel in the
engine compartment, securely install the
fuse panel cover through the audible
clicking sound.
If not, electrical failures may occur from
water contact.
NOTICE
If the multi fuse is blown, consult an
authorized Kia dealer.
NOTICE
The electronic system may not function
correctly even when the engine room
and internal fuse box's individual fuses
are not disconnected. In such case the
cause of the problem may be disconnection of the main fuse (BFT type), which is

--- Page 485 ---
Maintenance Fuses
located inside the positive battery terminal (+) cap. Since the main fuse is
designed more intricately than other
parts, visit the nearest authorized Kia
dealer.
Fuse/relay panel description
Inside the fuse/relay panel covers, you
can find the fuse/relay label describing
fuse/relay name and capacity.
NOTICE
Main fuse (Multi fuse)
Not all fuse panel descriptions in this
manual may be applicable to your vehicle. It is accurate at the time of printing.
When you inspect the fuse panel in your
vehicle, refer to the fuse panel label.
If the main fuse is blown, it must be
removed as follows:
1. Turn off the engine.
2.Disconnect the negative battery cable.
3.Remove the nuts shown in the picture
above.
4.Replace the fuse with a new one of
the same rating.
5.reinstall in the reverse order of
removal.
CAUTION
Visually inspect the battery cap for
secure closing. If the battery cap is not
securely latched, the electrical system
may be damaged to due influx of moisture into the system.

--- Page 486 ---
พรมเธมรมc6

Table: พรมเธมรมc6

[Summary]
The visbves is b\2EV1 (6722).
The visbves is 2|HEVIEK (D5Л\6V22).
The visbves is Z\HEVIEB (BEVБ).
The visbves is БИИДОм ГН.
The visbves is ДООБ ГОСК.
The visbves is EN2G USIG.

[Specifications]
VISBVES: b\2EV1 (6722)
VISBVES: 2|HEVIEK (D5Л\6V22)
VISBVES: Z\HEVIEB (BEVБ)
VISBVES: БИИДОм ГН
VISBVES: ДООБ ГОСК
VISBVES: EN2G USIG

[Detected Data]
Phone: 9190192269

[Table Data]
| VISBVES | | |
|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| | SOV | |
| b\2EV1 (6722) | 30V | |
| 2|HEVIEK (D5Л\6V22) | SOV | |
| Z\HEVIEB (BEVБ) | SOV | 569L 2694 MOLUGL COULO WOGNI |
| БИИДОм ГН | | |
| | SPV | notiwe wobniw19wo9190192269,rbtiw2 nis wobniW r9wo9 |
| ДООБ ГОСК | SOV | CEULEL DOOL ГOCK\AUJOCK KEISA |
| EN2G USIG | | CIEN!# ЫЮ{ЄC|EQ |

Maintenance
Driver's side fuse panel
91990-P1020
DOOR LOCK S/HEATER (REAR) PAIR BAG SPARE
LDC
20A 20A 10A 10A 10A
S/HEATER (DRV/PASS) SUNROOF
25A 20A 20A 20A 10A
P/SEAT (PASS) SPARE P/SEAT (DRV) AMP
25A 30A 30A 30A 25A
Fuse Name Fuse Rating
DOOR LOCK 20A
P/WINDOW RH 25A
PAINDOW LH 25A
S/HEATER (REAR) 20A
S/HEATER (DRV/PASS) 20A
P/SEAT (PASS) 30A
SUNROOF2 20A
AIRBAG2 10A
• 46
Fuses
USE THE DESIGNATED FUSE ONLY
UTILISEZ SEULEMENT LE FUSIBLE DÉSIGNÉS CO
SPARE MEMORY SPARE MULTIMEDI AIR BAG MODULE HEATED MIRROR A/BAG MODULE CLUSTER
IND
15A 0A 10A 20A 15A 10A 10A 7.5A 7.5A 7.5A 7.5A
SAFETY P/WINDOW E-SHIFTER WASHER A/C IBU SPARE E-SHIFTER SPARE MDPS
IBU (LH)
10A 25A 10A 7.5A 15A 7.5A 7.5A 10A 7.5A 10A 7.5A
SAFETY P/WINDOW TAIL GATE OPEN BRAKE SWITCH MODULE MODULE MODULE SPARE SPARE
25A 10A 10A 10A 10A 7.5A 10A
Circuit Protected
Center Door Lock/Unlock Relay
Power Window Main Switch, Passenger Power Window Switch
Power Window Main Switch
Rear Seat Warmer Control Module
Front Air Ventilation Seat Control Module, Front Seat Warmer Control Module
Passenger Power Seat Switch, Passenger Seat Relay Unit
Sunroof Controller (Blind Motor)
SRS (Supplemental Restraint System) Control Module

--- Page 487 ---
Maintenance Fuses
Fuse Name Fuse Rating Circuit Protected
SUNROOF1 20A Sunroof controller (Glass Motor)
P/SEAT DRV 30A Driver Power Seat Switch, Driver IMS (Integrated memory system) Control Module
MODULE9 10A
Driver IMS (Integrated memory system) Control Module, Driver/Passenger Smart Key
Outside Handle, Rain Sensor, Hazard Switch, Data Link Connector, Power Liftgate
Unit
AMP (Amplifier) 25A AMP (Amplifier)
IBU (Integrated Body
Control Unit)2 10A IBU (Integrated Body Control Unit), Ignition Switch, Auto Transmission Lever
P/WINDOW SAFETY
RH 25A Passenger Safety Power Window Module
P/WINDOW SAFETY
LH 25A Driver Safety Power Window Module
MEMORY 10A
Outside Mirror Folding/Unfolding Relay, Driver/Passenger Power Outside Mirror,
Instrument Cluster, Air Conditioner controller (LCD), Air Conditioner Control Module,
Mood Lamp Unit, Console Mood Lamp, Mood Lamp (Passenger), Crash Pad Switch,
Integrated Parking Assist Unit, Low Voltage DC-DC converter(450W)
LIFTGATE 10A Liftgate Relay
MODULE7 7.5A IBU (Integrated Body Control Unit)
BRAKE SWITCH 10A Stop Lamp Switch, IBU (Integrated Body Control Unit)
MULTIMEDIA 20A Audio (Display), Audio/Video & Navigation Head Unit, Low Voltage DC-DC converter(200W)
WASHER 15A Multifunction Switch
MODULE8 7.5A Front Air Ventilation Seat Control Module, Front/Rear Seat Warmer Control Module, E/
R Junction Block (Windshield Heated Relay LH)
AIRBAG1 15A SRS (Supplemental Restraint System) Control Module
Air Conditioner ON 7.5A E/R Junction Block (PTC Heater Relay #1, Blower Relay), Air Conditioner controller
(LCD), Air Conditioner Control Module
MODULE2 15A Front USB Charger Connector, Driver/Passenger Seat USB Port
MODULE6 10A Console Switch, Drive Mode Switch, Data Link Connector, Auto Transmission Shift
Lever Indicator
MODULE1 10A
Intergrated Parking Assist Unit, IBU (Integrated Body Control Unit), Audio Keyboard,
Audio/Video & Navigation Keyboard, Power Outside Mirror Switch, AMP (Amplifier),
Audio (Display), Audio/Video & Navigation Head Unit, , Low Voltage DC-DC converter
HEATED MIRROR 10A Driver/Passenger Power Outside Mirror
IBU (Integrated Body
Control Unit)1 7.5A IBU (Integrated Body Control Unit)
MODULE5 10A
Driver IMS (Integrated memory system) Control Module, Rear Seat Warmer Control
Module, Front Air Ventilation Seat Control Module, AMP (Amplifier), Front Seat
Warmer Control Module, Audio (Display), Audio/Video & Navigation Head Unit, Front
Wireless Charger, Air Conditioner controller (LCD), Air Conditioner Control Module,
Electro Chromic Mirror, Low Voltage DC-DC converter
AIRBAG IND 7.5A Instrument Cluster
MODULE4 7.5A
IBU (Integrated Body Control Unit), Multifunction Front View Camera, Crash Pad
Switch, Intergrated Parking Assist Unit, Front Corner Radar LH/RH, Clutch Module
Cylinder Sensor, AWD (4 Wheel Drive) ECU (Electronic Control Unit), Head Lamp LH/
RH, Rear Corner Radar LH/RH
E-SHIFTER3 7.5A SCU (System Control Unit), Electronic Auto Transmission Shift Lever Switch
CLUSTER 7.5A Instrument Cluster
MODULE3 7.5A Stop Lamp Switch, Overhead Console Lamp

--- Page 488 ---
Table:

[Summary]
The aor is AOl.
The hai6bea 19nod 169a tinul is Ual sluboM lottro ristt yowo9.rotiw& gprs olsensiT.vsloa moH mislAnspe.

[Specifications]
AOr: AOl
HaI6bEA 19nod 169A tinul: Ual sluboM lottro ristt yowo9.rotiw& gprs olsensiT.vsloa moH mislAnspe

[Table Data]
| | AOr | HaI6bEA 19nod 169A tinul |
|:---:|:---:|:---|
| ТЯАТ2 | AOl | Ual sluboM lottro ristt yowo9.rotiw& gprs olsensiT.vsloa moH mislAnspe |
| | | |
| | | |

Fuse Name Fuse Rating
Steering" 7.5A
START 10A
LDC 10A
• 48
Fuses
Circuit Protected
Motor Driven Power Steering Unit
Burglar Alarm Horn Relay, Transaxle Range Switch, Power train Control Module, BU
(Integrated Body Control Unit), Ignition Switch, E/R Junction Block (Start Relay)
ow Voltage DC-DC converter, Audio/Video & Navigation Head Unit, Instrument Clu
Shit Rear ConeS char LF, Air Conditioner Controller (LCD), Integrated Parking Assi

--- Page 489 ---
alace bioso

Maintenance
Engine compartment fuse panel
*: N05 c% 4 : NOS HEV crty.
FLEL
PUMP
4WD IG3
HEATER
EMP
CONNECTOR BLOWER
LEE THE DESENATED FLEE AND FELAY ON.
SISED PICEO BAR CITE
Fuses

--- Page 490 ---
Table:

[Row Contents]
Row 1: i+8, (20291
Row 2: sta, (12901291
Row 3: AOa
Row 5: ЕЭТАЭН ЭТ9, AOa
Row 6: 903
Row 7: TAOTAL, AOA
Row 8: ADE
Row 9: AOl
Row 10: AOS
Row 11: aWA, AOS
Row 12: 2MA, AOl, 102n92 yettsa
Row 13: AOT, bezU toul
Row 14: AOa
Row 15: S893
Row 18: SERA, ADE
Row 19: ОЭТАЗН ЯАЗЯ, AOA
Row 20: AOA
Row 21: AOA
Row 22: A+8, AOa, ХА w
Row 23: a+8, AOa
Row 24: Eta, (vsl9R піє
Row 26: leni, A08

[Table Data]
| |
|:---:|
| | i+8 | | (20291 |
| | sta | | (12901291 |
| | | AOa | |
| | | | |
| | ЕЭТАЭН ЭТ9 | AOa | |
| | 903 | | |
| | TAOTAL | AOA | |
| | | ADE | |
| | | AOl | |
| | | AOS | |
| | aWA | AOS | |
| | 2MA | AOl | 102n92 yettsa |
| | | AOT | bezU toul |
| | | AOa | |
| | S893 | | |
| | | | |
| | | | |
| | SERA | ADE | |
| | ОЭТАЗН ЯАЗЯ | AOA | |
| | | AOA | |
| | | AOA | |
| | A+8 | AOa | ХА w |
| | a+8 | AOa | |
| | Eta | | (vsl9R піє |
| | | | |
| | leni | A08 | |

Fuse Rating
ing''1 80A
COOLING FANZ 60A
B+3 60A
B+5 60A
B+4 50A
BLOWER 40A
ABSI/EPB1 40A
REAR HEATED 40A
ABS2 30A
TRAILERI 50A
COOLING FANT 50A
EPB2 60A
50A
ECU5 10A
AMS 10A
AWD 20A
FUEL PUMP 20A
Air ConditionerON1 10A
E-SHIFTERI 30A
LIFTGATE 40A
EOP 40A
PTC HEATER3 50A
50A
50A
B+2 50A
B+1 60A
Fuses
Circuit Protected
Motor Driven Power Steering Unit
Cooling Fan Controller
ICU Junction Block (Fuse - S/HEATER (Rear), P/
SEAT(PASS), SUNROOF2, SUNROOF1, P/SEAT
DRV, AMP, P/WINDOW SAFETY RH, Power Window
Main Relay)
PCB Block (Fuse - IG2, IG1, HORN, A/CON2, B/
TALARM HORN, ECU2, Engine Control Relay, Wiper
Main Relay)
ICU Junction Block (Fuse - DOOR LOCK, S/HEATER
|(DRV/PASS), AIRBAG2, MODULE9, IBU2, P/WIN-
DOW SAFETY LH, E-SHIFTER2, LIFTGATE, BRAKE
SWITCH, Long Term Load Latch Relay)., Outside
Mirror Folding/Unfolding Relay
Blower Relay
ESP (Electronic Stability Program Control Module
Rear Heated Relay
ESP (Electronic Stability Program Control Module
Trailer Connector
Cooling Fan Relay High
ESP (Electronic Stability Program Control Module
Windshield Heated Relay RH
Not Used
Battery Sensor
AWD ECM (Engine Control Module)
Fuel Pump Relay
Blower Relay, Air Conditioner Control Module
SCU (System Control Unit)
Power liftgate Unit
Electronic Oil Pump
Fuel Filter Heating Relay
ooling ran Relay low (Nu engine), DCU Rela
NEW R
PTC Heater Relay #2 (Diesel), E-CVVT Relay (Theta
Engine)
ICU Junction Block (IPSO6/IPS07/IPS08/IPS09/
IPS10/IPS11)
ICU Junction Block (IPSO1/IPSO2/IPSO3/IPS04/
IPSO5)

--- Page 491 ---
gonenetnisM

Table: gonenetnisM

[Summary]
The aos is AOS.
The aos is A2.5.
The aos is Aar.
The aos is Aar.
The aos is Aar.
The aos is AOM.
The aos is AOM.
The aos is AOT.
The aos is Aar.
The aos is Aar.
The aos is ADE.
The aos is Aar.
The aos is AOS.
The aos is AOS.
The aos is AOl.
The aos is AOl.
The aos is AOT.
The aos is AOl.
The aos is AOl.
The aos is AOS.
The aos is AC.T.
The aos is AOA.
The aos is AOA.

[Specifications]
AOS: AOS
AOS: A2.5
AOS: Aar
AOS: Aar
AOS: Aar
AOS: AOM
AOS: AOM
AOS: AOT
AOS: Aar
AOS: Aar
AOS: ADE
AOS: Aar
AOS: AOS
AOS: AOS
AOS: AOl
AOS: AOl
AOS: AOT
AOS: AOl
AOS: AOl
AOS: AOS
AOS: AC.T
AOS: AOA
AOS: AOA

[Table Data]
| | AOS | |
|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| STELTUO WO | AOS | toltuo 19W04tro17 |
| | A2.5 | elu |
| TUOT | Aar | |
| | Aar | aluboM lonto misit 9wo9 |
| | Aar | #~ #10tainl |
| | AOM | |
| | AOM | |
| | AOT | |
| ИЯОН | Aar | |
| ЯЗЧІШ ЯЯ | Aar | |
| | ADE | |
| SЯ02И32 | Aar | |
| | AOS | |
| | AOS | |
| EUOT | AOl | bozutol |
| SUOT | AOl | |
| | AOT | |
| EUD] | AOl | sluboM lontriod risit 19wo9 |
| | AOl | |
| | AOS | +#-7# io0 moltine! |
| | AC.T | (inU lottnodybol btsrpstil) USI.ysls (wo.) 1sqiW tnor7 |
| | AOA | |
| SOl | AOA | |
| smsh Seม7 | | |

Maintenance
Fuse Name Fuse Rating
IG2
FR WIPER2
SENSORI
SENSORT
ECU3
SENSOR5
SENSOR3
ECUT
SENSOR2
FR WIPERT
RR WIPER
HORN
Air ConditionerON2
FCA
SENSOR4
SENSOR6
ECU2
ABS3/EPB3
POWER OUTLET2
POWER OUTLET1
Fuses
Circuit Protected
40A IG2 Relay
40A IG1 Relay, ACC Relay
7.5A Front Wiper (Low) Relay, IBU (Integrated Body Control Unit)
20A Ignition Coil #1-#4
10A Electronic Oil Pump
10A Power train Control Module
10A Fuel Pump Relay, Oil Level Senor
10A Not Used
10A Not Used
20A Not Used
20A Power train Control Module
15A Oxygen Sensor (UP/DOWN)
30A Wiper Main Relay, Front Wiper (Low) Relay
15A Wiper Main Relay, ICU Junction Block (Rear Wiper Relay)
15A Horn Relay
10A Air Conditioner Comp Relay
10A Front Radar
Oil Control Valve #2 (Exhaust), Purge Control Solenoid Valve, Variable Oil
10A Pump Solenoid, Variable Intake Solenoid Valve, Cooling Fan Controller, Air
Conditioner Comp Relay
15A Injector #1 ~ #4
15A Power train Control Module
15A Power train Control Module
7.5A ES Floctronie stabily Program (Electronic Stabily Program: Control Mod
20A Front Power Outlet
20A Luggage Power Outlet

--- Page 492 ---
Table:

[Summary]
The yolad tist? is ОЯДМ.

[Specifications]
yolad tist?: ОЯДМ

[Table Data]
| | ОЯДМ |
|:---:|:---:|
| | ОЯДМ |
| HR yб betseH bloinlbriw | |
| | ОЯМ |
| | ОЯДМ |
| | |
| yolad tist? | ОЯДМ |
| | |
| | |

Maintenance
Relay
Refer to the following table for the relay
type.
Relay Name
Rear Heated Relay
Start Relay
Fuel Pump Relay
Windshield Heated Relay LH
PTC Heater Relay #1
Windshield Heated Relay RH
E-CWVT Relay (Theta Engine)
Blower Relay
Fuses
TYPE
MICRO
MICRO
MICRO
MICRO
MICRO
MICRO
MICRO
MICRO

--- Page 493 ---
DLINIZES ЗEЛГEMEИ1 ГE

Maintenance
Engine compartment fuse panel (Battery terminal cover)
발전기 250A
ALT
지정된 퓨즈만 사용하세요
USE THE DESIGNATED
FUSE ONLY
USE SOLO LOS FUSIBLES
ESPECIFICADOS
используйте только
استخدم الفيوز ذو فيل المناسب
UTILISEZ SEULEMENT LE
FUSIBLE DESIGNES LOU
91975-P1000
Fuses

--- Page 494 ---
Maintenance
Light bulbs
Light bulbs are installed in various parts
of the vehicle to provide lighting inside
and outside the vehicle as well as to alert
other vehicles.
Bulb replacement precaution
Please keep extra bulbs on hand with
appropriate wattage ratings in case of
emergencies.
Refer to "Bulb wattage" on page 9-5.
When changing lamps, first turn off the
vehicle at a safe place, firmly apply the
parking brake and detach the battery's
negative (-) terminal.
WARNING
Working on the lights
Prior to start working on the light system, firmly apply the parking brake,
ensure that turn the ignition switch or
ENGINE START/STOP button and turn
off the lights to avoid sudden movement
of the vehicle and burning your fingers
or receiving an electric shock.
Use only bulbs of the specified wattage.
CAUTION
Light replacement
Be sure to replace the burned-out bulb
with one of the same wattage rating.
Otherwise, it may cause damage to the
fuse or electric wiring system.
Fuly install light bulbs and any parts
used to secure them. Failure to do so
may result in heat damage, fire, or water
entering the headlamp unit. This may
damage the headlamps or cause condensation to build up on the lens. To
prevent damage or fire, make sure bulbs
are fuly seated and locked.
Light bulbs
CAUTION
Headlamp lens
To prevent damage, do not clean the
headlamp lens with chemical solvents or
strong detergents.
NOTICE
- If the light bulb or lamp connector is
removed while the lamp is still on, the
fuse box's electronic system may log
it as a malfunction. Therefore, a lamp
malfunction incident may be recorded
as a Diagnostic Trouble Code (DTC) in
the fuse box.
- It is normal for an operating lamp to
flicker momentarily. This is due to a
stabilization function of the vehicle's
electronic control device. If the lamp
lights up normally after momentarily
blinking, then it is functioning as normal.
However, if the lamp continues to
flicker several times or turns off completely, there may be an error in the
vehicle's electronic control device.
Please have the vehicle checked by
an authorized Kia dealer immediately.
NOTICE
Have the headlamp aiming adjusted by
an authorized Kia dealer after an accident or after the headlamp assembly is
reinstalled.
NOTICE
You can find moisture inside the lens of
lamps after a car wash or driving in the
rain. It is a natural event caused by the
temperature difference between the
inside and the outside of the lamp and
does not mean there is a problem with

--- Page 495 ---
Maintenance its functions. The moisture inside the
lamp would disappear if you drive the
vehicle with the headlamp turned on.
However, the level at which the moisture
is removed may differ depending on the
size/location/condition of the lamp. If the
moisture continues to stay inside the
lamp, have the vehicle checked by an
authorized Kia dealer.
If you don't have the necessary tools, the
correct bulbs and the expertise, consult
an authorized Kia dealer. In many cases,
it is difficult to replace vehicle light bulbs
because other parts of the vehicle must
be removed before you can get to the
bulb. This is especially true if you have to
remove the headlamp assembly to get
to the bulb(s).
Removing/installing the headlamp
assembly can result in damage to the
vehicle. If non-genuine parts or substandard bulbs are used, it may lead to blowing a fuse or other wiring damages.
Do not install extra lamps or LEDs to the
vehicle. If additional lights are installed, it
may lead to lamp malfunctions and flickering. Additionally, the fuse box and
other wiring may be damaged.
Light bulbs
Light bulb position (Front)
Headlamp – Type A
Headlamp – Type B
Fog lamp
1. Headlamp (Low) (LED type)
2.Headlamp (High) (LED type)
3.Front turn signal lamp (Bulb type)
4.Front turn signal lamp (LED type)
5.Day time running lamp/Position lamp
(LED type)
6.Front fog lamp (LED type)
7.Front side marker lamp (LED type)

--- Page 496 ---
Maintenance
Light bulb position (Rear)
Rear combination lamp - Type A
Rear combination lamp - Type B
1. Stop lamp (LED type)
2.Stop lamp (Bulb type)
3.Rear turn signal lamp (LED type)
4.Rear turn signal lamp (Bulb type)
5.Tail lamp (LED type)
6.High mounted stop lamp (LED type)
7.License plate lamp (Bulb type)
8.Backup lamp (LED type)
9.Rear side marker lamp (LED type)
Light bulbs
Light bulb position (Side) (if
equipped)
1. Side repeater lamp (LED type)
Replacing lights (LED type)
If the LED lamp does not operate, have
your vehicle checked by an authorized
Kia dealer. The LED lamp cannot be
replaced as a single component because
it is an integrated unit. The LED lamp has
to be replaced with the unit.
A skiled technician should check or
repair the LED lamp, for it may damage
related parts of the vehicle.

--- Page 497 ---
Maintenance Replacing front turn signal lamp
(Bulb type)
ONQ5061029 1. Turn off vehicle and disconnect the
negative terminal from the battery.
2.Remove the socket from the assembly
by turning the socket counterclockwise until the tabs on the socket align
with the slots on the assembly.
3.Remove the bulb from the socket by
pressing it in and rotating it counterclockwise until the tabs on the bulb
align with the slots in the socket. Pull
the bulb out of the socket
4.Insert a new bulb by inserting it into
the socket and rotating it until it locks
into place.
5.Install the socket in the assembly by
aligning the tabs on the socket with
the slots in the assembly. Push the
socket into the assembly and turn the
socket clockwise.
6.Connect the negative terminal from
the battery.
Light bulbs
Replacing rear turn signal lamp,
stop lamp (Bulb type)
1. Turn off vehicle and disconnect the
negative terminal from the battery.
2.Open the liftgate.
3.Open the service cover.
4.Loosen the light assembly retaining
screws with a cross-tip screw driver.
5.Remove the rear combination lamp
assembly from the body of the vehicle.
6.Disconnect the rear combination lamp
connector.
7.Remove the socket from the assembly
by turning the socket counterclockwise until the tabs on the socket align
with the slots on the assembly.
1) Stop lamp bulb2) Rear turn signal
lamp bulb
8.Remove the bulb from the socket by
pressing it in and rotating it counterclockwise until the tabs on the bulb
align with the slots in the socket.
Pull the bulb out of the socket.
9.Insert a new bulb by inserting it into
the socket and rotating it until it locks
into place.

--- Page 498 ---
Maintenance
10.Install the socket in the assembly by
aligning the tabs on the socket with
the slots in the assembly.
Push the socket into the assembly
and turn the socket clockwise.
11.Install the rear combination lamp
assembly to the body of the vehicle.
12.Install the service cover.
Replacing high mounted stop
lamp (LED type)
If the high mounted stop lamp (LED)
does not operate, have your vehicle
checked by an authorized Kia dealer.
The LED lamp cannot be replaced as a
single component because it is an integrated unit. The LED lamp has to be
replaced with the unit.
A skiled technician should check or
repair the high mounted stop lamp
(LED), for it may damage related parts of
the vehicle.
Light bulbs
Replacing license plate lamp
(Bulb type)
1. Turn off vehicle and disconnect the
negative terminal from the battery.
2.Using a flat-blade screwdriver, gently
pry the lens cover from lamp housing.
3.Remove the bulb by pulling it straight
out.
4.Install a new bulb in the socket.
5.Align the lens cover tabs with the
lamp housing notches and snap the
lens into place.
Replacing map lamp (Bulb type)
WARNING
Interior lamps
Prior to working on the Interior lamps,
ensure that the "OFF" button is
depressed to avoid burning your fingers
or receiving an electric shock.
1. Turn off vehicle and disconnect the
negative terminal from the battery.
2.Using a flat-blade screwdriver, gently
pry the lens cover from lamp housing.
3.Remove the bulb by pulling it straight
out.
4.Install a new bulb in the socket.

--- Page 499 ---
Maintenance 5.Align the lens cover tabs with the
lamp housing notches and snap the
lens into place.
CAUTION
Be careful not to dirty or damage the
lens, lens tab, and plastic housings.
Replacing room lamp (Bulb type)
WARNING
Interior lamps
Prior to working on the Interior lamps,
ensure that the "OFF" button is
depressed to avoid burning your fingers
or receiving an electric shock.
1. Turn off vehicle and disconnect the
negative terminal from the battery.
2.Using a flat-blade screwdriver, gently
pry the lens cover from lamp housing.
3.Remove the bulb by pulling it straight
out.
4.Install a new bulb in the socket.
5.Align the lens cover tabs with the
lamp housing notches and snap the
lens into place.
CAUTION
Be careful not to dirty or damage the
lens, lens tab, and plastic housings.
Light bulbs
Replacing vanity mirror lamp
(Bulb type)
WARNING
Interior lamps
Prior to working on the Interior lamps,
ensure that the "OFF" button is
depressed to avoid burning your fingers
or receiving an electric shock.
1. Turn off vehicle and disconnect the
negative terminal from the battery.
2.Using a flat-blade screwdriver, gently
pry the lamp assembly from interior.
3.Remove the bulb by pulling it straight
out.
4.Install a new bulb in the socket.
5.Install the lamp assembly to interior.
CAUTION
Be careful not to dirty or damage the
lens, lens tab, and plastic housings.

--- Page 500 ---
Maintenance
Replacing glove box lamp (Bulb
type)
WARNING
Interior lamps
Prior to working on the Interior lamps,
ensure that the "OFF" button is
depressed to avoid burning your fingers
or receiving an electric shock.
1. Turn off vehicle and disconnect the
negative terminal from the battery.
2.Using a flat-blade screwdriver, gently
pry the lamp assembly from interior.
3.Remove the cover from the lamp
assembly.
4.Remove the bulb by pulling it straight
out.
5.Install a new bulb in the socket.
6.Install the cover to the lamp assembly.
7.Install the lamp assembly to interior.
CAUTION
Be careful not to dirty or damage the
lens, lens tab, and plastic housings.
Light bulbs
Replacing luggage lamp (Bulb
type)
WARNING
Interior lamps
Prior to working on the Interior lamps,
ensure that the "OFF" button is
depressed to avoid burning your fingers
or receiving an electric shock.
1. Turn off vehicle and disconnect the
negative terminal from the battery.
2.Using a flat-blade screwdriver, gently
pry the lamp assembly from interior.
3.Remove the cover from the lamp
assembly.
4.Remove the bulb by pulling it straight
out.
5.Install a new bulb in the socket.
6.Install the cover to the lamp assembly.
7.Install the lamp assembly to interior.
CAUTION
Be careful not to dirty or damage the
lens, lens tab, and plastic housings.

--- Page 501 ---
Maintenance Appearance care
Use the information in the following sections to keep the exterior and interior of
your vehicle clean.
Exterior care
Use the information in the following sections to maintain the exterior of your
vehicle. Keeping the exterior clean is not
only aesthetically pleasing, but it also
helps to prolong the life of the vehicle.
NOTICE
If you park the vehicle around a stainless
signboard or windshield building etc.,
the plastic exterior trim (bumper, spolier,
garnish, lamp, outside mirror etc.) may
be damaged by reflected sunlight from
the external structure. To avoid damaging the plastic exterior trim, park the
vehicle away from the areas where the
reflected light may occur or use a vehicle cover. (Depending on the vehicle, the
type of exterior trim applied such as
spoiler may differ.)
Exterior general caution
It is very important to follow the label
directions when using any chemical
cleaner or polish. Read all warning and
caution statements that appear on the
label.
Finish maintenance
Washing
To help protect your vehicle's finish from
rust and deterioration, wash it thoroughly and frequently at least once a
month with lukewarm or cold water.
If you use your vehicle for off-road driving, you should wash it after each off-
Appearance care
road trip. Pay special attention to the
removal of any accumulation of salt, dirt,
mud, and other foreign materials. Make
sure the drain holes in the lower edges
of the doors and rocker panels are kept
clear and clean.
Insects, tar, tree sap, bird droppings,
industrial pollution and similar deposits
can damage your vehicle's finish if not
removed immediately.
Even prompt washing with plain water
may not completely remove all these
deposits. A mild soap, safe for use on
painted surfaces, may be used.
After washing, rinse the vehicle thoroughly with lukewarm or cold water. Do
not allow soap to dry on the finish.
After washing the vehicle, test the
brakes while driving slowly to see if they
have been affected by water. If braking
performance is impaired, dry the brakes
by applying them lightly while maintaining a slow forward speed.
CAUTION
- Do not use strong soap, chemical
detergents or hot water, and do not
wash the vehicle in direct sunlight or
when the body of the vehicle is warm.
- Be careful when washing the side windows of your vehicle, especially with
high-pressure water. Water may leak
through the windows and wet the
interior.
- To prevent damage to the plastic
parts and lamps, do not clean with
chemical solvents or strong detergents.
WARNING
After washing the vehicle, test the
brakes while driving slowly to see if they
have been affected by water. If braking

--- Page 502 ---
Maintenance
performance is impaired, dry the brakes
by applying them lightly while maintaining a slow forward speed.
High-pressure washing
When using high-pressure washers,
make sure to maintain sufficient distance from the vehicle.
Insufficient clearance or excessive pressure can lead to component damage or
water penetration.
Do not spray the camera, sensors or its
surrounding area directly with a high
pressure washer. Shock applied from
high pressure water may cause the
device to not operate normally.
Do not bring the nozzle tip close to boots
(rubber or plastic covers) or connectors
as they may be damaged if they come
into contact with high pressure water.
WARNING
After washing the vehicle, test the
brakes while driving slowly to see if they
have been affected by water. If braking
performance is impaired, dry the brakes
by applying them lightly while maintaining a slow forward speed.
CAUTION
Wetting engine compartment
- Water washing in the engine compartment including high pressure water
washing may cause the failure of elec-
Appearance care
trical circuits located in the engine
compartment.
- Never allow water or other liquids to
come in contact with electrical/electronic components and air duct inside
the vehicle as this may damage them.
- After the vehicle has been washed,
brake carefuly while paying attention
to the traffic conditions until the braking effect has been fuly restored.
NOTICE
Matte paint finish vehicle (if
equipped)
Automatic car wash which uses rotating
brushes should not be used as this can
damage the surface of your vehicle. A
steam cleaner which washes the vehicle
surface at high temperature may cause
the oil to adhere and leave stains that is
difficult to remove.
Use a soft cloth (e.g. microfiber towel or
sponge) when washing your vehicle and
dry with a microfiber towel. When you
hand wash your vehicle, you should not
use a cleaner that finishes with wax.
Waxing
Wax the vehicle when water will no longer bead on the paint.
Always wash and dry the vehicle before
waxing. Use a good quality liquid or
paste wax, and follow the manufacturer's instructions. Wax all metal trim to
protect it and to maintain its luster.
Removing oil, tar, and similar materials
with a spot remover will usually strip the
wax from the finish. Be sure to re-wax
these areas even if the rest of the vehicle
does not yet need waxing.

--- Page 503 ---
Maintenance Be careful not to touch the lens when
waxing the lamps.
CAUTION
Drying vehicle
- Wiping dust or dirt off the body with a
dry cloth will scratch the finish.
- Do not use steel wool, abrasive cleaners, acid detergents or strong detergents containing high alkaline or
caustic agents on chrome-plated or
anodized aluminum parts. This may
result in damage to the protective
coating and cause discoloration or
paint deterioration.
NOTICE
Matte paint finish vehicle (if
equipped)
Do not use any polish protector such as
a detergent, an abrasive or a polish. In
case wax is applied, remove the wax
immediately using a silicon remover and
if any tar or tar contaminant is on the
surface use a tar remover to clean.
However, be careful not to apply too
much pressure on the painted area.
Finish damage repair
Deep scratches or stone chips in the
painted surface must be repaired
promptly. Exposed metal will quickly rust
and may develop into a major repair
expense.
NOTICE
If your vehicle is damaged and requires
any metal repair or replacement, be sure
the body shop applies anti-corrosion
materials to the parts repaired or
replaced.
Appearance care
NOTICE
Matte paint finish vehicle (if
equipped)
In case of matte paint finish vehicles, it is
impossible to modify only the damaged
area and repair of the whole part is necessary.
If the vehicle is damaged and painting is
required, have your vehicle maintained
and repaired by an authorized Kia
dealer. Take extreme care, as it is difficult to restore the quality after the
repair.
Bright-metal maintenance
To remove road tar and insects, use a tar
remover, not a scraper or other sharp
object.
To protect the surfaces of bright metal
parts from corrosion, apply a coating of
wax or chrome preservative and rub to a
high luster.
During winter weather or in coastal
areas, cover the bright metal parts with
a heavier coating of wax or preservative.
If necessary, coat the parts with non-corrosive petroleum jely or other protective
compound.
Underbody maintenance
Road salt and other corrosive chemicals
are used in cold weather states to melt
snow and prevent ice accumulation. If
these chemicals are not regularly
removed, they will corrode the vehicle
underbody and, over time, damage
many parts: the fuel lines, the fuel tank
retention system, the vehicle's suspension, the exhaust system, and even the
body frame.

--- Page 504 ---
Maintenance
The National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration has warned all vehicle
owners of all brands of the need to take
the following steps:
- Wash the undercarriage of your vehicle regularly during the winter and
whenever your vehicle has been
exposed to such salts or chemicals.
- Do a thorough washing of the undercarriage at the end of the winter.
- Use professional service technicians
or governmental inspection stations
to annually inspect for corrosion.
- Immediately seek an inspection of
your vehicle if you become visually
aware of corrosion flaking or scaling
or if you become aware of a change in
vehicle performance, such as soft or
spongy brakes, fluids leaking, impairment of directional control, suspension noises or rattling metal straps.
Aluminum wheel maintenance
The aluminum wheels are coated with a
clear protective finish.
- Do not use any abrasive cleaner, polishing compound, solvent, or wire
brushes on aluminum wheels. They
may scratch or damage the finish.
- Clean the wheel when it has cooled.
- Use only a mild soap or neutral detergent, and rinse thoroughly with water.
Also, be sure to clean the wheels after
driving on salted roads. This helps
prevent corrosion.
- Avoid washing the wheels with high
speed vehicle wash brushes.
- Do not use any alkaline or acid detergents It may damage and corrode the
aluminum wheels coated with a clear
protective finish.
Appearance care
Corrosion protection
Protecting your vehicle from corrosion
By using the most advanced design and
construction practices to combat corrosion, we produce vehicles of the highest
quality. However, this is only part of the
job. To achieve the long-term corrosion
resistance your vehicle can deliver, the
owner's cooperation and assistance is
also required.
Common causes of corrosion
The most common causes of corrosion
on your vehicle are:
- Road salt, dirt and moisture that is
allowed to accumulate underneath
the vehicle.
- Removal of paint or protective coatings by stones, gravel, abrasion or
minor scrapes and dents which leave
unprotected metal exposed to corrosion.
High-corrosion areas
If you live in an area where your vehicle
is regularly exposed to corrosive materials, corrosion protection is particularly
important. Some of the common causes
of accelerated corrosion are road salts,
dust control chemicals, ocean air and
industrial pollution.
Moisture breeds corrosion
Moisture creates the conditions in which
corrosion is most likely to occur. For
example, corrosion is accelerated by
high humidity, particularly when temperatures are just above freezing. In
such conditions, the corrosive material is
kept in contact with the vehicle's surface
by moisture that evaporates slowly.

--- Page 505 ---
Maintenance Mud is particularly corrosive because it
dries slowly and holds moisture in contact with the vehicle. Although the mud
appears to be dry, it can still retain the
moisture and promote corrosion.
High temperatures can also accelerate
corrosion of parts that are not properly
ventilated so the moisture can be dispersed. For all these reasons, it is particularly important to keep your vehicle
clean and free of mud or accumulations
of other materials. This applies not only
to the visible surfaces but particularly to
the underside of the vehicle.
To help prevent corrosion
You can help prevent corrosion from
beginning by observing the following:
Keep your vehicle clean
The best way to prevent corrosion is to
keep your vehicle clean and free of corrosive materials. Attention to the underside of the vehicle is particularly
important.
If you live in a high-corrosion area where
road salts are used, near the ocean,
areas with industrial pollution, acid rain,
etc.—, you should take extra care to prevent corrosion. In winter, hose off the
underside of your vehicle at least once a
month and be sure to clean the underside thoroughly when winter is over.
When cleaning underneath the vehicle,
give particular attention to the components under the fenders and other areas
that are hidden from view. Do a thorough job; just dampening the accumulated mud rather than washing it away
will accelerate corrosion rather than prevent it. Water under high pressure and
steam are particularly effective in
Appearance care
removing accumulated mud and corrosive materials.
When cleaning lower door panels, rocker
panels and frame members, be sure that
drain holes are kept open so that moisture can escape and not be trapped
inside to accelerate corrosion.
Keep your garage dry
Don't park your vehicle in a damp,
poorly ventilated garage. This creates a
favorable environment for corrosion.
This is particularly true if you wash your
vehicle in the garage or drive it into the
garage when it is still wet or covered
with snow, ice or mud. Even a heated
garage can contribute to corrosion
unless it is well ventilated so moisture is
dispersed.
Keep paint and trim in good condition
Scratches or chips in the finish should be
covered with "touch-up" paint as soon as
possible to reduce the possibility of corrosion. If bare metal is showing through,
the attention of a qualified body and
paint shop is recommended.
Bird droppings: Bird droppings are
highly corrosive and may damage
painted surfaces in just a few hours.
Always remove bird droppings as soon
as possible.
Don't neglect the interior
Moisture can collect under the floor
mats and carpeting and cause corrosion.
Check under the mats periodically to be
sure the carpeting is dry. Use particular
care if you carry fertilizers, cleaning
materials or chemicals in the vehicle.

--- Page 506 ---
Maintenance
These should be carried only in proper
containers and any spils or leaks should
be cleaned up, flushed with clean water
and thoroughly dried.
Interior care
Use the information in the following sections to maintain the interior of your
vehicle.
Interior general precautions
Prevent chemicals such as perfume, cosmetic oil, sun cream, hand cleaner, and
air freshener from contacting the interior
parts because they may cause damage
or discoloration. If they do contact the
interior parts, wipe them off immediately. If necessary, use a mixture of
warm water and mild non-detergent
cleaner (test all cleaners on a concealed
area before use). Use proper car cleaner
to clean interior parts.
CAUTION
Electrical components
Never allow water or other liquids to
come in contact with electrical/electronic
components inside the vehicle as this
may damage them.
CAUTION
Leather
When cleaning leather products (steering wheel, seats etc.), use neutral detergents or low alcohol content solutions. If
you use high alcohol content solutions or
acid/alkaline detergents, the color of the
leather may fade or the surface may get
stripped off.
Appearance care
Taking care of leather seats
- Vacuum the seat periodically to
remove dust and sand on the seat. It
will prevent abrasion or damage of
the leather and maintain its quality.
- Wipe the leather seat cover often with
dry or soft cloth.
- Sufficient use of a leather protective
may prevent abrasion of the cover
and helps maintain the color. Be sure
to read the instructions and consult a
specialist when using leather coating
or protective agents.
- Leather with bright colors (beige,
cream beige) is easily contaminated
and clear in appearance. Clean the
seats frequently.
- Avoid wiping with wet cloth. It may
cause the surface to crack.
Cleaning the leather seats
Remove all contaminations instantly.
Refer to instructions below for removal
of each contaminant.
- Cosmetic products (sunscreen, foundation, etc.)
- Apply cleansing cream on a cloth
and wipe the contaminated point.
Wipe off the cream with a wet cloth
and remove water with a dry cloth.
- Beverages (coffee, soft drink, etc.)
- Apply a small amount of neutral
detergent and wipe until contaminations do not smear.
- Oil, blue jeans/clothes (Color transfer)
- Remove oil/stain instantly with
absorbable cloth and wipe with
stain remover for leather only.
- Chewing gum
- Harden the gum with ice and
remove gradually.

--- Page 507 ---
Maintenance Fabric seat cover (if equipped)
Please clean the fabric seats regularly
with a vacuum cleaner in consideration
of fabric material characteristics. If they
are heavily soiled with beverage stains,
etc., use a suitable interior cleaner. To
prevent damage to seat covers, wipe off
the seat covers down to the seams with
a large wiping motion and moderate
pressure using a soft sponge or microfiber cloth.
Velcro closures on clothing or sharp
objects may cause snagging or
scratches on the surface of the seats.
Make sure not to rub such objects
against the surface.
Cleaning the upholstery and interior trim
Car interior surfaces
Remove dust and loose dirt from interior
surfaces with a whisk broom or a vacuum cleaner. If necessary, clean interior
surfaces with a mixture of warm water
and mild non-detergent cleaner (test al
cleaners on a concealed area before
use).
Fabric
Remove dust and loose dirt from fabric
with a whisk broom or vacuum cleaner.
Clean with a mild soap solution recommended for upholstery or carpets.
Remove fresh spots immediately with a
fabric spot cleaner. If fresh spots do not
receive immediate attention, the fabric
can be stained and its color can be
affected. Also, its fire-resistant properties can be reduced if the material is not
properly maintained.
Appearance care
Using anything but recommended
cleaners and procedures may affect the
fabric's appearance and fire-resistant
properties.
Cleaning the lap/shoulder belt
webbing
Clean the belt webbing with any mild
soap solution recommended for cleaning upholstery or carpet. follow the
instructions provided with the soap. Do
not bleach or re-dye the webbing
because this may weaken it.
Cleaning the interior window
glass
If the interior glass surfaces of the vehicle become fogged (that is, covered with
an oily, greasy or waxy film), they should
be cleaned with a glass cleaner. follow
the directions on the glass cleaner container.
CAUTION
Rear window
Do not scrape or scratch the inside of
the rear window. This may result in damage of the rear window defroster grid.

--- Page 508 ---
Maintenance
Emission control system
The emission control system of your
vehicle is covered by a written limited
warranty. Please see the warranty information contained in the Warranty &
Consumer Information manual in your
vehicle.
Your vehicle is equipped with an emission control system to meet all applicable emission regulations. There are three
emission control systems, as follows.
1. Crankcase emission control system
2.Evaporative emission control system
3.Exhaust emission control system
In order to assure the proper function of
the emission control systems, it is recommended that you have your vehicle
inspected and maintained by an authorized Kia dealer in accordance with the
maintenance schedule in this manual.
Caution for the Inspection and
Maintenance Test (With Electronic Stability Control (ESC) system)
- To prevent the vehicle from misfiring during dynamometer testing,
turn the ESC off by pressing the
ESC switch.
- After dynamometer testing is completed, turn the ESC back on by
pressing the ESC switch again.
1. Crankcase emission control
system
The Positive Crankcase Ventilation system is employed to prevent air pollution
caused by blow-by gases being emitted
from the crankcase. This system supplies fresh filtered air to the crankcase
through the air intake hose. Inside the
Emission control system
crankcase, the fresh air mixes with blowby gases, which then pass through the
Positive Crankcase Ventilation (PCV)
valve into the induction system.
2. Evaporative emission control
(including Onboard Refueling
Vapor Recovery (ORVR)) system
The evaporative emission control system
is designed to prevent fuel vapors from
escaping into the atmosphere. (The
ORVR system is designed to allow the
vapors from the fuel tank to be loaded
into a canister while refueling at the gas
station, preventing the escape of fuel
vapors into the atmosphere.)
Canister
Fuel vapors generated inside the fuel
tank are absorbed and stored in the
onboard canister. When the engine is
running, the fuel vapors absorbed in the
canister are drawn into the surge tank
through the Purge Control Solenoid
Valve.
Purge Control Solenoid Valve
(PCSV)
The Purge Control Solenoid Valve
(PCSV) is controlled by the Engine Control Module (ECM); when the engine
coolant temperature is low during idling,
the PCSV closes so that evaporated fuel
is not taken into the engine. After the
engine warms up during ordinary driving, the PCSV opens to introduce evaporated fuel to the engine.

--- Page 509 ---
Maintenance 3. Exhaust emission control system
The exhaust emission control system is a
highly effective system which controls
exhaust emissions while maintaining
good vehicle performance.
Vehicle modifications
This vehicle should not be modified.
Modification of your vehicle could affect
its performance, safety or durability and
may even violate governmental safety
and emissions regulations. In addition,
damage or performance problems
resulting from any modification may not
be covered under warranty.
- If you use authorized electronic
devices, it may cause the vehicle to
operate abnormally, wire damage,
battery discharge and fire. For your
safety, do not use unauthorized electronic devices.
Engine exhaust gas precautions
(carbon monoxide)
- Carbon monoxide can be present with
other exhaust fumes. Therefore, if you
smell exhaust fumes of any kind
inside your vehicle, have it inspected
and repaired immediately. If you ever
suspect exhaust fumes are coming
into your vehicle, drive it only with al
the windows fuly open. Have your
vehicle checked and repaired immediately.
WARNING
Exhaust
Engine exhaust gases contain carbon
monoxide (CO). Though colorless and
odorless, it is dangerous and could be
Emission control system
lethal if inhaled. follow the instructions
on this page to avoid CO poisoning.
- Do not operate the engine in confined
or closed areas (such as garages) any
more than what is necessary to move
the vehicle in or out of the area.
- When the vehicle is stopped in an
open area for more than a short time
with the engine running, adjust the
ventilation system (as needed) to
draw outside air into the vehicle.
- Never sit in a parked or stopped vehicle for any extended time with the
engine running.
- When the engine stals or fails to start,
excessive attempts to restart the
engine may cause damage to the
emission control system.
WARNING
Catalytic converter
Keep away from the catalytic converter
and exhaust system while the vehicle is
running or immediately thereafter. The
exhaust and catalytic systems are very
hot and may burn you.
Operating precautions for catalytic converters
WARNING
Fire
- Do not park, idle or drive the vehicle
over or near flammable objects, such
as grass, vegetation, paper, leaves,
etc. A hot exhaust system can ignite
flammable items under your vehicle.
- Also, do not remove the heat sink
around the exhaust system, do not
seal the bottom of the vehicle or do
not coat the vehicle for corrosion con-

--- Page 510 ---
Maintenance
California perchlorate notice
trol. It may present a fire risk under
certain conditions.
California perchlorate notice
Perchlorate Material-special handling
Your vehicle is equipped with a catalytic
converter emission control device.
Therefore, the following precautions
must be observed:
- Use only UNLEADED FUEL for gasoline engines.
- Do not operate the vehicle when there
are signs of engine malfunction, such
as misfire or a noticeable loss of performance.
- Do not misuse or abuse the engine.
Examples of misuse are coasting with
the ignition off and descending steep
grades in gear with the ignition off.
- Do not operate the engine at high idle
speed for extended periods (5 minutes or more).
- Do not modify or tamper with any
part of the engine or emission control
system. Al inspections and adjustments must be made by an authorized Kia dealer.
- Avoid driving with an extremely low
fuel level. Running out of fuel could
cause the engine to misfire, damaging
the catalytic converter.
Failure to observe these precautions
could result in damage to the catalytic
converter and to your vehicle. Additionally, such actions could void your warranties.
may apply, See https://dtsc.ca.gov/perchlorate
Notice to California Vehicle Dismantlers:
Perchlorate containing materials, such
as air bag inflators, seatbelt pre-tensioners and keyless remote entry batteries,
must be disposed of according to Title
22 California Code of Regulations Section 67384.10 (a).

--- Page 511 ---
Specifications, Consumer information and
Reporting safety defects
Specifications, Consumer information and Reporting safety defects
Dimensions 9-2
Engine 9-3
Gross vehicle weight 9-3
Luggage volume 9-4
Air conditioning system 9-4
Bulb wattage 9-5
Tires and wheels 9-6
Recommended lubricants and capacities 9-7
- Recommended SAE viscosity number 9-8
Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) 9-9
Vehicle certification label 9-9
Tire specification and pressure label 9-10
Engine number 9-10
Air conditioner compressor label 9-10
Refrigerant label 9-10
Consumer Assistance (U.S. only) 9-11
Electrical Equipment (U.S. only) 9-13
Reporting Safety Defects (U.S. only) 9-14
Online factory authorized manuals (U.S. only) 9-14

--- Page 512 ---
Specifications, Consumer information
and Reporting safety defects
Specifications, Consumer information and Reporting safety
defects
Dimensions
Item
Vehicle overall length
Vehicle overall width
Without Roof rack
Overall height With Roofrack
With Roof rack (X-Line)
Front
Tread
Rear
Wheelbase
65.4 (1,660)
65.6 (1,665)
235/65 R17
235/60 R18
235/55 R19
235/65 R17
235/60 R18
235/55 R19
Dimensions
in (mm)
AWD
183.5 (4,660)
73.4 (1,865)
66.1 (1,678)
66.3 (1,683)
66.9 (1,698)
63.8 (1,620)
63.6 (1,615)
64.1 (1,627)
63.9 (1,622)
108.5 (2,755)

--- Page 513 ---
io aso misoite tisme

Table: io aso misoite tisme

[Summary]
The robio prinia is ロ-カ-モ-フ.

[Specifications]
robio prinia: ロ-カ-モ-フ

[Table Data]
| | |
|:---:|:---:|
| robio prinia | ロ-カ-モ-フ |
| | 122) 2010 |
| | (E.SaI) TeAS |

pecifications, Consumer informatio
nd Reporting safety defect
Engine
Item
Displacement Icu in (cc)]
Bore x Stroke lin (mm)]
Firing order
No. of cylinders
Gross vehicle weight
Item
Gross vehicle weight lbs. (kg)] 4,674 (2,120)
Engine
Smart stream G2.5 GDi
2,497 (152.3)
88.5 x 101.5 (3.5 × 4)
1-3-4-2
4 (inline)
Smart stream G2.5 GDi
AWD
4,850 (2,200)

--- Page 514 ---
Table:

[Row Contents]
Row 1: hit yistoqmet XMT tot, (osl,r) a.es, (O01S) (.AT
Row 2: มว] (7A2) 9mulov spsppuJ, (TE0,Г) д.2Е
Row 3: notl, .UIM, .XAM
Row 4: emuloV epsepul

[Table Data]
| |
|:---:|
| | hit yistoqmet XMT tot | (osl,r) a.es | (O01S) (.AT |
| มว] (7A2) 9mulov spsppuJ | | (TE0,Г) д.2Е | |
| notl | .UIM | .XAM |
| | | emuloV epsepul | |

Table:

[Summary]
The trssindal102291amo0 is tnsopinton.
The ortost is astoda.
The trssindal102291amo0 is motl.
The ortost is omulov to tripiow.

[Specifications]
trssindal102291amo0: tnsopinton
Ortost: astoda
trssindal102291amo0: motl
Ortost: omulov to tripiow

[Table Data]
| trssindal102291amo0 | Ortost | |
|:---|:---:|:---:|
| tnsopinton | astoda | TAESI-R |
| motl | omulov to tripiow | notsiitizz lo |

pecifications, Consumer informatio
nd Reporting safety defect
Luggage volume
Luggage Volume
Item
MIN.
Dual level luggage floor high 36.6 (1,037)
Luggage volume (SAE) [cu
# (L)] 39.6 (1,120)
• Min: Behind rear seat • Max: Behind front seat
Air conditioning system
Item Weight of volume Classification
Refrigerant 550+25 R-1234yf
Compressor lubricant 120+10
Please contact a professional workshop for more details.
Contact an authorized Kia dealer.
Luggage volume
MAX.
69.3 (1,963)
74.1 (2,100)
R-1234yf
PAG

--- Page 515 ---
Specifications, Consumer information
and Reporting safety defects
Bulb wattage
Light bulb High beam Low beam Position and daytime running lamps Front
Front fog lamps* Turn signal
lamps
Type A Type B Side Side repeater lamps Stop lamps Type A Type B Tail lamps Rear
Turn signal
lamps
Type A Type B Backup lamps High mounted stop lamp License plate lamps Map lamps Type A Type B Room lamps Type A Type B Interior
Personal lamps* Vanity mirror lamps* Glove box lamp* Luggage lamp Type A Type B * : if equipped
Bulb wattage
Bulb type Wattage (Watt)
LED LED
LED LED
LED LED
LED LED
PY28/8W 28/8
LED LED
LED LED
P28/8W LED 28/8
LED
LED LED
PY27W 27
LED LED
LED LED
LED LED
W5W 5
WEDGE (W10W) LED 10
LED
FESTOON LED 10
LED
LED LED
FESTOON 5
W5W 5
FESTOON LED 10
LED

--- Page 516 ---
Table:

[Row Contents]
Row 0: git 91692, riaoe, ХДА, 000,S (o0e), M, 08
(OEr), (OSA, ASO(
a0 )AS, (S.A) 0a
(OSA, ASO(
aO )AS
Row 1: IdES
8гя0a
laES
eгяda, XLaT
"er, ror, 258), OEr
(Ors)
oar (OAS), (OAS, se -er
(TSI
Row 2: 0S8,l, H, (OAS, (OAS, (OAS
Row 3: XLO.T
XLa.T, EOr, H, (Ors), AS) 2E, AS) 2E, ,A.S) dE, AS) 2E
Row 4: IdES
гяda, 000,S (o0e)
Row 5: esia, (ex) di, 522, ram
(2mx), tro17, 169Я, tror7, bsol mumixsM
Row 6: motl, yti, bool lsmok, auprot
Row 7: 6 bama

[Table Data]
| git 91692 | riaoe | ХДА | | 000,S (o0e) | M | 08
(OEr) | (OSA | ASO(
a0 )AS | (S.A) 0a
(OSA | ASO(
aO )AS | |
| | IdES
8гя0a
laES
eгяda | XLaT
"er | ror | 258) | | OEr
(Ors)
oar (OAS) | | | | (OAS | se -er
(TSI |
| 0S8,l | H | (OAS | (OAS | (OAS | |
| XLO.T
XLa.T | EOr | | H | (Ors) | AS) 2E | AS) 2E | ,A.S) dE | AS) 2E | |
| IdES
гяda | | 000,S (o0e) | | | | | | |
| | | esia | | (ex) di | 522 | ram
(2mx) | tro17 | 169Я | tror7 | bsol mumixsM
1698 | |
| motl | | | yti | | | bool lsmok | | auprot |
| | | | | | 6 bama | | | | | | |

Specifications, Consumer information
and Reporting safety defects
Tires and wheels
Load capacity
Item Tire size Wheel
SIze Li'
235/ 104
65R17 17'
235/ 7.51X 103
Full size tire 60R18 18"
235/ 101
55R19 19"
Compact
spare tire T135/ 4BX 104
(steel 90D17 17'
wheell?
Compact
spare tire
Calloy Compact spare tire's size is based on the full size tire equipped on your vehicle.
wheel?
*1. Load Index
*2. If equipped
A CAUTION
When replacing tires, use the same size
originally supplied with the vehicle.
Using tires of a different size can damage the related parts or make it work
irregularly.
Speed capac- Inflation pressure [psi (bar, kPa)]
ity Normal load
Ib (kg) SS2 mph Front Rear
(km/h)
22000
H 130
1,930 (210)
(875) 35(2.4, 35(2.4,
240) 240)
H
1,820
(825) 150
V (240)
2,000 M 80 60(4.2, 60(4.2,
(900) (130) 420) 420)
* NOTICE
• We recommend that when replacing
tires, use the same originally supplied
with the vehicles.
If not, that affects driving performance.
• When driving in high altitude grades,
it is natural for the atmospheric pressure to decrease.
Therefore, please check the tire pressure and add more air when necessary.
Additionally required tire air pressure
per km above sea level: 1.5 psi/km
Tires and wheels
Wheellug nut
Maximum load torque
Ibfift (kgfm,
Front Rear Nim)
35 (2.4, 35(24,
240) 240)
79~94
111-13107
60(4.2, 60 (4.2,
420) 420)

--- Page 517 ---
Table:

[Summary]
The 9ม7 is a.so misontetismz.
The 9ม7 is Etrisloo.
The 9ม7 is Automstio tisnemizzion )AT( tluibS.
The 9ม7 is aso mistetisma
(litoy brs nisib)
Tabrommossa
гaіgт9n3lst0T # 6іЖ.
The 9ม7 is trispindu_.

[Specifications]
9ม7: a.so misontetismz
9ม7: Etrisloo
9ม7: Automstio tisnemizzion )AT( tluibS
9ม7: aso mistetisma
(litoy brs nisib)
Tabrommossa
гaіgт9n3lst0T # 6іЖ
9ม7: trispindu_

[Table Data]
| 9ม7 | | |
|---:|:---:|:---:|
| a.so misontetismz | tp 2UST.o-da.o | (trolsviupe 10 |
| | | |
| | | | \A-TOG aN 22VM7 | VJA-TOG AOTI JAZ |
| Etrisloo | a.So misotetisme | )er(
e.aS u2 pt | trIs |
| Automstio tisnemizzion )AT( tluibS | .to 2U T8.0
(J a.a) | |
| aso mistetisma
(litoy brs nisib)
Tabrommossa
гaіgт9n3lst0T # 6іЖ | (1 8.a) | |
| trispindu_ | | emiulov | |

Specifications, Consumer information
and Reporting safety defects
Recommended lubricants and capacities
To help achieve proper engine and powertrain performance and durability, use only
lubricants of the proper quality.
The correct lubricants also help promote engine efficiency that results in improved
fuel economy.
These lubricants and fluids are recommended for use in your vehicle.
Lubricant
Engine oil
(drain and refill) Smartstream G2.5
Recommends" GDi
Kia = TotalEnergies
Automatic transmission (AT) fluid?
Coolant 3 Smartstream G2.5
GDi
Brake fluid
Rear differential oil (AWD)
Transfer case oil (AWD) Smartstream G2.5
GDi
Fuel
*1. Refer to "Recommended SAE viscosity number" on page 9-8"
*2. Use only specified genuine automatic transmission fluid. The use of non-specified
(even marked as compatible with genuine) could result in shift quality deterioration
and vibrations, eventually, the transmission failure. (Refer to "Explanation of scheduled maintenance items" on page 8-13")
*3. Different type of coolant or water may damage the electrical component.
Recommended lubricants and capacities
Volume Classification
6.13 US qt. Full synthetic SAE OW-20, API SN PLUS/SP or
(5.8 L) ILSAC GF-6
6.87 US qt. SK ATF SP4-M1, MICHANG ATF SP4-M1, S-OIL
(6.5 L) ATF SP4-M1, Kia Genuine ATF SP4-M1
9.62 US qt. An Phosphate based ethylene glycol based cool-
(9.1 L) ant
As required SAE J1704 DOT-4 LV / FMVSS 116 DOT-4 /
ISO4925 CLASS-6
0.56 ~ 0.66 US qt. HYPOID GEAR OIL API GL-5, SAE 75W/85 (Recommended: SK HCT-5 GEAR OIL 75W85 or
(0.53 ~ 0.63 L) equivalent)
0.65 ~ 0.72 US qt. HYPOID GEAR OIL API GL-5, SAE 75W/85
(0.62 ~ 0.68 L) (Recommended: SK HCT-5 GEAR OIL 75W/85
or equivalent)
14.3 US gal (54 L) Gasoline

--- Page 518 ---
Specifications, Consumer information
Recommended lubricants and capacities
and Reporting safety defects
Recommended SAE viscosity
number
Temperature Range for SAE Viscosity Numbers
°C
Temperature
Gasoline Engine Oil °F
Smartstream G2.5
GDi 0W-20
An engine oil displaying this American Petroleum Institute (API) Certification
Mark conforms to the International Lubricant Specification Advisory Committee (ILSAC). It is recommended to only use engine oils that uphold this
API Certification Mark.
CAUTION
NOTICE
Always be sure to clean the area around
any filer plug, drain plug, or dipstick
before checking or draining any lubricant. This is especially important in
dusty or sandy areas and when the vehicle is used on unpaved roads. Cleaning
the plug and dipstick areas will prevent
dirt and grit from entering the engine
and other mechanisms that could be
damaged.
Never add any additives to the engine
oil. Engine oil additives can change the
properties of engine oil and may cause
serious engine failure.
When choosing an oil, consider the
range of temperature your vehicle will
be operated in before the next oil
change. Proceed to select the recommended oil viscosity from the chart.
Engine oil viscosity (thickness) has an
effect on fuel economy and cold
weather operating (engine start and
engine oil flow ability). Lower viscosity
engine oils can provide better fuel economy and cold weather performance,
however, higher viscosity engine oils are
required for satisfactory lubrication in
hot weather.
Using oils of any viscosity other than
those recommended could result in
engine damage.

--- Page 519 ---
Specifications, Consumer information
and Reporting safety defects
Vehicle Identification Number
(VIN)
The Vehicle Identification Number (VIN)
is the number used in registering your
vehicle and in all legal matters pertaining to its ownership, etc.
VIN cover (if equipped)
The number is punched on the floor
under the front right side seat. To check
the number, open the cover.
VIN label
The VIN is also on a plate attached to the
top of the dashboard. The number on
the plate can easily be seen through the
windshield from outside.
Vehicle Identification Number (VIN)
Vehicle certification label
The vehicle certification label attached
on the driver's side center pilar gives the
vehicle identification number (VIN).

--- Page 520 ---
Specifications, Consumer information
and Reporting safety defects
Tire specification and pressure
label
The tires supplied on your new vehicle
are chosen to provide the best performance for normal driving.
The tire label located on the driver's side
center pilar gives the tire pressures recommended for your vehicle.
Engine number
The engine number is stamped on the
engine block as shown in the drawing.
Smartstream G2.5 GDi
Tire specification and pressure label
Air conditioner compressor
label
A compressor label informs you the type
of compressor your vehicle is equipped
with such as model, supplier part number, production number, refrigerant (1)
and refrigerant oil (2).
Refrigerant label
The refrigerant label is located under the
hood.
The label contains the following information:
- Type of refrigerant
- Amount of refrigerant
* For more details, refer to "Air conditioning refrigerant label" on page 4-108.

--- Page 521 ---
Specifications, Consumer information
and Reporting safety defects
Consumer Assistance (U.S.
only)
Roadside Assistance is provided on al
new current model year Kia Vehicles
from the date the vehicle is delivered to
the first retail buyer or otherwise put into
use (inservice date), whichever is earlier,
for a period of 60 months or 60,000
miles, whichever is earlier, subject to the
terms, conditions and exclusions set
forth in the Kia Warranty and Consumer
Information Manual applicable to your
model year vehicle.
Kia America, Inc. reserves the right to
limit or deny services or other benefits to
any owner or driver when, in Kia America, Inc.'s judgment, the claims and/or
service requests are excessive in frequency or type of occurrence.
Toll free consumer assistance
is available from 5:00 AM to 6:00 PM
PST, Monday through Friday and is
accessible by dialing 1-800-333-4Kia
(4542).
For more information regarding assistance available, please refer to your Kia
Warranty & Consumer Information Manual.
Emergency roadside assistance
is available 24 hours a day, 365 days a
year and is accessible by dialing 1-800-
333-4Kia (4542) or by pressing the RSA
button (when enroled into Kia Connect).
Please note that you must provide your
Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) to
verify coverage at the time of your cal.
The VIN can be found on the dash of
your vehicle on the driver's side, on the
door jamb of the driver's door, your vehi-
Consumer Assistance (U.S. only)
cle's registration or proof of insurance
card.
Kia utilizes a network of over 30,000
roadside assistance providers. Should
you accidentally run out of fuel, require
a battery jump, or need help changing a
tire, a Kia Roadside Assistance Representative will dispatch someone to
deliver a small quantity of gas, change a
flat tire with your inflated spare, or
arrange a battery jump to allow you to
proceed to your destination. We have
access to a network of over 10,000 locksmiths to help you should you become
locked out of your Kia.
In the event that mechanical difficulty
renders your vehicle undriveable due to
a warranty-related concern, Kia's Roadside Assistance Representative will
arrange to transport your vehicle to the
nearest Kia dealer or to an authorized
Kia alternative service location.
Your vehicle must be accessible to our
dispatch transport vehicle, as determined by our driver, to receive this service.
NOTICE
Roadside Assistance benefits are not
available for any Kia vehicle that has
ever been or should have been issued a
"salvage" title or similar "branded" title
under any state's law or has been
declared a "total loss" or equivalent by a
financial institution or insurance company.

--- Page 522 ---
Specifications, Consumer information
and Reporting safety defects
Trip interruption
Trip interruption expense benefits are
provided in the event that a warrantyrelated disablement occurs more than
150 miles from your home, and the
repairs require more than 24 hours to
complete. Reasonable reimbursement is
included for meals, lodging, or rental
vehicle expenses. Trip interruption coverage is limited to $100 per day subject
to a three day maximum limit per incident. You must contact the Kia Roadside
Assistance Center to obtain pre-authorization of expenses. Once the Kia Roadside Assistance Center gives
authorization for trip interruption benefits, they will assist you in making the
necessary arrangements. Insurance
deductibles, expenses, and claims paid
by your insurance company or other
providers are not eligible for reimbursement.
Fleet vehicles are excluded from reimbursement under Kia's Trip Interruption
Policy.
Registering your vehicle in a foreign country
If you plan to register your vehicle in a
foreign country, you should confirm that
it conforms to the regulations in that
country. Even if you successfuly register
the vehicle in a foreign country, you may
experience the following problems and
should therefore consider the possibility
of having to deal with them:
1. The fuel specified for your vehicle
may be unavailable. If other than the
specified fuel is used, it could cause
damage to the engine, the fuel injection system, and other fuel-related
parts which may not be covered
Consumer Assistance (U.S. only)
under your New Vehicle Emissions
Limited Warranty.
2.We must, therefore, clearly state that
when you leave the country in which
you purchased your Kia new and register it in another country, problems
arising from the use of fuel other than
the specified fuel are not subject to
manufacturer's warranty. Because
vehicles like yours may not be marketed in the new country of registration, parts, servicing techniques and
tools necessary to maintain and repair
your vehicle may be unavailable.
Even if vehicles like yours are sold
there, mechanical specifications
required by the government may vary
enough from the country of purchase
to cause additional problems.
3.There may not be an Authorized Kia
Dealer in the area in which you plan to
register your vehicle. You may additionally experience difficulty in obtaining services in a foreign country for
any number of reasons.
Further, we cannot assume any responsibility for problems that result from
unsatisfactory service or lack of service
outside of the United States.

--- Page 523 ---
Specifications, Consumer information
Electrical Equipment (U.S. only)
and Reporting safety defects
Electrical Equipment (U.S.
only)
The electrical system of your vehicle is
designed to perform under all reasonably expected operating conditions.
However, before any additional electrical
equipment is installed in your vehicle,
consult an Authorized Kia Dealer, in
order to ensure that you do not void
your warranty.
Certain electrical equipment, or the way
in which it is installed, may adversely
affect the operation of your vehicle,
including such systems as the engine
control system, the audio system and
the electrical charging system and thus
potentially void all or part of your warranty.
We assume no responsibility for any
expense you may incur or for any malfunction of your vehicle or any of its
components or systems that may result
from the installation of additional electrical equipment that is not supplied, or
recommended for installation by, Kia.
Installation of a mobile two-way
radio system
If a mobile two-way radio system is
installed improperly, or if an excessively
powerful type of system is used, other
electronic systems may be adversely
affected. To avoid damage to your vehicle, consult an Authorized Kia Dealer
concerning the proper equipment and
installation.
Kia vehicles are designed and manufactured to meet or exceed all applicable
safety standards.
For your safety, however, we strongly
urge you to read and follow all directions
in this Owner's Manual, particularly the
information under the headings
"NOTICE", "CAUTION" and "WARNING".
If, after reading this manual, you have
any questions regarding the operation
of your vehicle, safety issues and
defects, please contact your Kia's tolfree Consumer Assistance hot line as
below:
National Consumer Affairs Manager
Kia America, Inc.
P.O. Box 52410
Irvine, CA 92619-2410
1-800-333-4Kia (4542)

--- Page 524 ---
Specifications, Consumer information
and Reporting safety defects
Reporting Safety Defects (U.S.
only)
If you believe that your vehicle
has a defect which could cause a
crash or could cause injury or
death, you should immediately
inform the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration
(NHTSA) in addition to notifying
Kia America, Inc.
If NHTSA receives similar complaints, it may open an investigation, and if it finds that a safety
defect exists in a group of vehicles, it may order a recal and
remedy campaign. However,
NHTSA cannot become involved
in individual problems between
you, your dealer, or Kia America,
Inc.
To contact NHTSA, you may cal
the Vehicle Safety Hotline tolfree at 1-888-327-4236 (TTY: 1-
800-424-9153); go to http://
www.safercar.gov; download the
SaferCar mobile application; or
write to: Administrator, NHTSA,
1200 New Jersey Ave. SE., Washington, DC 20590.
You can also obtain other information about motor vehicle
safety from http://www.safercar.gov.
Reporting Safety Defects (U.S. only)
Online factory authorized
manuals (U.S. only)
The following publications are available
on www.KiaTechinfo.com.
Service manual
This manual covers maintenance and
recommended procedures for repair to
engine and chassis components. It is
written for the Journeyman mechanic,
but is simple enough for most mechanically inclined owners to understand.
Electrical troubleshooting manual
This manual complements the Service
Manual by providing in-depth troubleshooting information for each electrical
circuit in your vehicle.
Owner's manual
This manual describes the overall features and operating procedures for the
vehicle.

--- Page 525 ---
A noitsiveiddA

Abbreviation
A

--- Page 526 ---
Abbreviation
Abbreviation
ABS
Anti-lock Brake System
BAS
Brake Assistant System
BCA
Blind-Spot collision-Avoidance Assist
BVM
Blind-Spot View Monitor
CC
Cruise Control
CRS
Child Restraint System
DAW
Driver Attention Warning
DBC
downhill Brake Control
DRL
Daytime Running Light
EBD
Electronic Brake force Distribution
ECM
Electric Chromic Mirror
EPS
Electric Power Steering
ESC
Electronic Stability Control
FCA
Forward collision-Avoidance Assist
A
HAC
Hill-start Assist Control
HBA
High Beam Assist
HDA
Highway Driving Assist
HMSL
High Mounted Stop Lamp
ISLA
intelligent Speed Limit Assist
LATCH
Lower Anchors and Tether for Children
LFA
Lane following Assist
LKA
Lane Keeping Assist
MIL
Malfunction Indicator Lamp
MSLA
Manual Speed Limit Assist
NSCC
Navigation-based Smart Cruise Control
ODS
Occupant Detection System
PCA
Reverse Parking collision-Avoidance
Assist
PDW
Reverse Parking Distance Warning

--- Page 527 ---
noitsiveyddA

Abbreviation
RCCA
Rear Cross-Traffic Collision-Avoidance Assist
Rear View Monitor
SCC
Smart Cruise Control
SEW
Safe Exit Warning
SRS
Supplemental Restraint System
SRSCM
SRS Control Module
Surround View Monitor
Turn By Turn
Traction Control System
TIN
Tire Identification Number
TPMS
Tire Pressure Monitoring System
VIN
Vehicle Identification Number
VSM
Vehicle Stability Management
A -

--- Page 528 ---
Index
Index
I

--- Page 529 ---
noizzimanst bitsmotus

Table: noizzimanst bitsmotus

[Row Contents]
Headers: metaya, OA-a
A2-8
Row 2: (A2T) taizas vtilidsta velist, rA-a
Row 3: as-a
Row 4: OA-a
Row 6: as-a
Row 7: ae-a
matava
Row 9: 8s-a
Row 10: 8E-d
Row 11: rA-a
Row 12: blod otus, SE-d
Row 13: DE-a
Row 14: as-a
Row 15: 0S-8
Row 16: apnitter, oe-a
Row 17: oe-a
Row 18: noitonutsm, re-a
Row 19: oe-a (MVa) votinom weiv toqa-brild
Row 20: apnitter, SE-a
Row 21: DE-a
Row 22: enoitstimil bris noitonutlsm, TE-a
Row 23: rE-a
(A08) t2iz26
Row 25: A-a
Row 26: Ee-s
Row 27: yrotted, as-8

[Table Data]
| metaya | OA-a
A2-8 |
|:---:|:---:|
| |
| (A2T) taizas vtilidsta velist | rA-a |
| | as-a |
| | OA-a |
| | |
| | as-a |
| ae-a
matava |
| | |
| | 8s-a |
| | 8E-d |
| | rA-a |
| blod otus | SE-d |
| | DE-a |
| | as-a |
| | 0S-8 |
| apnitter | oe-a |
| | oe-a |
| noitonutsm | re-a |
| oe-a (MVa) votinom weiv toqa-brild | |
| apnitter | SE-a |
| | DE-a |
| enoitstimil bris noitonutlsm | TE-a |
| rE-a
(A08) t2iz26 |
| | |
| | A-a |
| Ee-s |
| yrotted | as-8 |
| | |

Table: noizzimanst bitsmotus

[Summary]
The eninoitibnos yis bris enitser
vllsมกรก is err-s.
The vllsoitsmotus is D-IT.
The exstni nis grillontro is SST-D.
The eninoitibros ris is EST-A.
The mataye is arr-s.
The oibs1 is EAT-D.
The metaya oibus is SAI-D.
The 9าธว voistni is da-8.
The 9าธว yoirotxo is 1a-8.
The ts92 noitslitnev tis is SET-A.
The troil painsw is дЕ-€.
The osd ris abia is aA-E.
The metaya art to noitsrago is ex-E
dE-€.
The ped tis is EA-E.
The gsd vis nistiมว is ГА-Е.
The znoitibnos noitslłni-non is oa-E.
The enoitibno noitsltni is ед-E.
The alsdel pninew ped vis is Ea-€.

[Specifications]
eninoitibnos yis bris enitser
Vllsมกรก: err-s
Vllsoitsmotus: D-IT
exstni nis grillontro: SST-D
eninoitibros ris: EST-A
mataye: arr-s
oibs1: EAT-D
metaya oibus: SAI-D
9าธว voistni: da-8
9าธว yoirotxo: 1a-8
ts92 noitslitnev Tis: SET-A
troil painsw: дЕ-€
osd ris abia: aA-E
metaya art to noitsrago: ex-E
dE-€
ped Tis: EA-E
gsd vis nistiมว: ГА-Е
znoitibnos noitslłni-non: oa-E
enoitibno noitsltni: ед-E
alsdel pninew ped vis: Ea-€

[Table Data]
| | arr-s |
|:---:|:---:|
| atsmil\tremnistotai ent priev | |
| EST-A |
| etsmil is tront ent to primut | |
| | OST-A |
| OST-A |
| eninoitibnos yis bris enitser
Vllsมกรก | err-s |
| Vllsoitsmotus | D-IT |
| eninoitibros ris bris gritser | |
| SST-A |
| exstni nis grillontro | SST-D |
| eninoitibros ris | EST-A |
| mataye | arr-s |
| | |
| EAT-A |
| oibs1 | EAT-D |
| metaya oibus | SAI-D |
| | Al-E |
| 9าธว voistni | da-8 |
| 9าธว yoirotxo | 1a-8 |
| | 1a-8 |
| | rr-2 |
| ts92 noitslitnev Tis | SET-A |
| | SS-8 |
| troil painsw | дЕ-€ |
| | TE-E |
| osd ris abia | aA-E |
| metaya art to noitsrago | ex-E
dE-€ |
| ped Tis | EA-E |
| | |
| gsd vis nistiมว | ГА-Е |
| AE-E
грод тів |
| | ra-e |
| znoitibnos noitslłni-non | oa-E |
| enoitibno noitsltni | ед-E |
| alsdel pninew ped vis | Ea-€ |
| 8A-€ |
| | E-as
€-aE |
| oniytibom to ot tremqiupe pnibbs | |
| ped Tis | |
| | |

Index
A
air bag collision sensors
air bag warning labels
inflation conditions
non-inflation conditions
supplemental restraint system (SRS)
air bags
curtain air bag
driver's and passenger's front
air bag
occupant detection system (ODS)
operation of the system
side air bag
SRS components and functions
warning light
air cleaner filter
air ventilation seat
all wheel drive (AWD) system
appearance care
exterior care
interior care
armrest
audio system
radio
USB port
automatic climate control
system
air conditioning
controlling air intake
controlling fan speed
heating and air conditioning
automatically
heating and air conditioning
manually
mode selection
temperature control
turning off the front air climate
control
using the infotainment/climate
switchable controller
automatic transmission
operation
shift lock system
automatic transmission shift
5-42 indicator
automatic transmission
(shift lever)
3-53 AWD
3-52 AWD mode
3-48 safe operation
3-50 B
3-51 battery
3-34 battery saver function
3-47 before driving
blind-spot collision-avoidance
3-43 assist (BCA)
3-35 malfunction and limitations
3-45 operation
3-37 settings
3-36 blind-spot view monitor (BVM) 6-90
malfunction
8-22 operation
4-132 settings
5-17 brake fluid
8-61 brake system
8-61 anti-lock brake system (ABS)
8-66 auto hold
3-14 Brake Assistant System(BAS)
4-142 downhill brake control (DBC)
4-143 electronic parking brake (EPB)
4-143 electronic stability control (ESC)
system
4-123 good braking practices
4-122 hill-start assist control (HAC)
trailer stability assist (TSA)
4-117 vehicle stability management (VSM)
system
4-119 bulb replacement precaution
C
4-123 california perchlorate notice
care of seat belts

--- Page 530 ---
Table:

[Summary]
The anoitizoa yromom eniota is A-SO.
The apritter is Ea-a.
The noitsteqo is Aa-a.

[Specifications]
anoitizoa yromom eniota: A-SO
apritter: Ea-a
noitsteqo: Aa-a

[Table Data]
| |
|:---:|
| | IS-A |
| anoitizoa yromom eniota | A-SO |
| | IS-A |
| | IS-A |
| os-A metaya yromem noitizoq rovinb | |
| apritter | Ea-a |
| noitsteqo | Aa-a |

Table:

[Summary]
The soon too is 8EI-A.
The bood art gnizol is eE-s.
The noitslitnev is a01-A.
The noitsyego metzya is aor-s.
The pritsed is a01-A.
The zoqyt is 8S-€.
The 290 s pnillstani is es-E.

[Specifications]
Soon too: 8EI-A
bood art gnizol: eE-s
noitslitnev: a01-A
noitsyego metzya: aor-s
pritsed: a01-A
zoqyt: 8S-€
290 s pnillstani: es-E

[Table Data]
| esd nis nistius | ГА-Е |
|:---|:---:|
| | OEr-A |
| | 8a-a |
| | 8a-a |
| | rr-e |
| Soon too | 8EI-A |
| bood art gnizol | eE-s |
| noitslitnev | a01-A |
| noitsyego metzya | aor-s |
| pritsed | a01-A |
| | 801-A |
| | eor-s |
| | eor-s |
| | 80Г-A |
| oninoitibnos is | |
| metaya lortnos tsmilo | |
| | 55-8 |
| zoqyt | 8S-€ |
| | TS-E |
| 290 s pnillstani | es-E |
| | as-E |
| | as-E |
| | |

center console storage
child restraint system (CRS)
children always in the rear
installing a CRS
selecting a CRS
Types
climate control air filter
climate control system
air conditioning
air conditioning refrigerant label
checking the amount of air conditioner
refrigerant
checking the amount of compressor
lubricant
climate control air filter
heating
system operation
ventilation
closing the hood
coat hook
consumer assistance
cruise control (CC)
operation
cup holder
curtain air bag
D
day/night rear view mirror
daytime running light (DRL)
declaration of conformity
defogging (windshield)
defrosting (windshield)
door locks
child-protector rear door lock
door lock/unlock features
from inside the vehicle
in case of an emergency
rear occupant alert (ROA) system
with the mechanical key
with the smart key
drive mode
drive mode integrated control
system
drive mode
driver attention warning (DAW) 6-52
maltunction and limitations
4-129 operation
3-26 settings
3-26 driver position memory system 4-20
3-29 easy access function
3-27 recalling memory positions
3-28 storing memory positions
8-22 system reset
4-106 driver's and passenger's front air
4-107 bag
4-109 E
economical operation
4-109 electrical equipment
4-108 electronic stability control (ESC)
4-106 system
4-106 emergency
emergency starting
4-39 engine doesn't turn over
4-138 engine stalls at a crossroad
9-11 or crossing
6-58 engine will not start
6-58 flat tire while driving
4-130 flat tire (with spare tire)
3-47 flat tire (with tire mobility kit)
hazard warning flasher
not start
road warning
4-51 turns over slowly
4-94 vehicle stalls while driving
4-146 emergency starting
4-124 jump-starting
push-starting
4-124 emission control system
engine compartment 2-8,8-4
4-18 engine coolant
4-16 engine overheats
4-19 engine start/stop button
4-19 ENGINE START/STOP button position 5-8
4-15 Illuminated ENGINE START/STOP
4-14 button
5-50 starting the engine
exterior features
5-50 roof rack

--- Page 531 ---
xod avole

Table: xod avole

[Summary]
The eminisw nego bood is 8E-A.
The boost eris is 8E-A.
The gnimew nsgo boonl is 8E-A.
The bood ent gnizol is eE-A.
The mețz emo is ra-A.
The agnitte is 58-a.
The noits199o is E8-a.
The znoitstimil bris noitonutlsm is 28-a.
The (ach) tizzs pnivib vswdpid is 18-a.
The a) taim mgi is ге-А.

[Specifications]
eminisw nego bood: 8E-A
boost eris: 8E-A
gnimew nsgo boonl: 8E-A
bood ent gnizol: eE-A
mețz emo: ra-A
agnitte: 58-a
noits199o: E8-a
znoitstimil bris noitonutlsm: 28-a
(ACH) tizzs pnivib vswdpid: 18-a
A) taim mgi: ге-А

[Table Data]
| eminisw nego bood | 8E-A |
| boost eris | 8E-A |
| gnimew nsgo boonl | 8E-A |
| bood ent gnizol | eE-A |
| bood | |
| mețz emo | ra-A |
| agnitte | 58-a |
| noits199o | E8-a |
| znoitstimil bris noitonutlsm | 28-a |
| (ACH) tizzs pnivib vswdpid | 18-a |
| A) taim mgi | ге-А |
| | SOr-A |
| | eA-A |
| | El-E |
| | Ir-E |
| | Ir-E |

Table: xod avole

[Summary]
The reremt is Aa-A.
The retemobesqe is Ea-A.
The эvв0 is да-s.
The vetemobo is da-A.
The spus laut is да-A.
The tame of sonstaib is aa-A.

[Specifications]
reremt: Aa-A
retemobesqe: Ea-A
эvв0: да-s
vetemobo: da-A
spus laut: да-A
tame of sonstaib: aa-A

[Table Data]
| reremt | Aa-A |
| retemobesqe | Ea-A |
| эvв0 | да-s |
| vetemobo | da-A |
| spus laut | да-A |
| | Aa-A |
| tame of sonstaib | aa-A |
| | Ea-A |
| | |

F
flat tire
removing and storing the spare tire 7-20
using of compact spare tire
flat tire (with spare tire)
flat tire (with tire mobility kit)
floor mat anchor(s)
forward collision-avoidance assist
(FCA) - front camera only
malfunction and limitations
operation
settings
forward collision-avoidance assist
(FCA) - sensor fusion type
malfunction and limitations
operation
settings
forward/reverse parking distance
warning (PDW)
malfunction and precautions
operation
front glass heater
front seat adjustment for
power seat
front seat headrest
fuel filler door
closing the fuel filler door
opening the fuel filler door
fuel requirements
fuses
driver's side fuse panel
engine compartment fuse
replacement
inner panel fuse replacement
G
gauges
distance to empty
engine coolant temperature gauge
fuel gauge
odometer
outside temperature gauge
speedometer
tachometer
glove box
H
7-23 headrest
7-18 front seat headrest
7-12 rear seat headrest
4-138 heated steering wheel
heated washer nozzle
high beam assist (HBA)
6-8 highway driving assist (HDA)
malfunction and limitations
6-13 HomeLink® system
6-16 closing the hood
6-14 hood open warning
opening the hood
6-107 hood open warning
4-128 dle stop and go (ISG
leactivatin
immobilizer system
3-11 folding key immobilizer system
smart key immobilizer system
4-40 indicator lights
1-2 audio system
ising the infotainment/climate switchable
8-46 inside rear view mirror
day/night rear view mirro
8-44 HomeLink® system
instrument cluster
adjusting instrument cluster
full LCD cluster
4-64 transmission shift indicator
intelligent speed limit assist
4-64 (ISLA)
4-66 malfunction and limitations
4-63 peratior
4-64 ettinas

--- Page 532 ---
Table:

[Summary]
The ams list bris noitizog is sP-d.
The (mised wol) trpil been is se-s.
The trpil otus is de-s.
The lotnos patrpil is se-s.
The lortnos paitdpil is Ae-s.
The trpil pot tort is де-д.
The (r) trpil pninnur emitysb is Ae-A.
The pnitdpil is Ee-A.
The (obia) noitizoq dlud trpil is a2-8.
The (1691) noitizog diud trpil is aa-s.
The (triort) noitizoq dlud trpil is 2a-8.
The stapttil ent eningqo is SS-A.
The etsprtil is SS-A.
The (retuqmos qint) noitsmotai qit is ٨-٢٢.
The (metaya is ar-d.

[Specifications]
ams list bris noitizog: sP-d
(mised wol) trpil been: se-s
trpil otus: de-s
lotnos patrpil: se-s
lortnos paitdpil: Ae-s
trpil pot tort: де-д
(R) trpil pninnur emitysb: Ae-A
pnitdpil: Ee-A
(obia) noitizoq dlud trpil: a2-8
(1691) noitizog diud trpil: aa-s
(triort) noitizoq dlud trpil: 2a-8
stapttil ent eningqo: SS-A
etsprtil: SS-A
(retuqmos qint) noitsmotai qit: ٨-٢٢
(metaya: ar-d

[Table Data]
| | eEr-A |
|:---:|:---:|
| ams list bris noitizog | sP-d |
| (mised wol) trpil been | se-s |
| trpil otus | de-s |
| lotnos patrpil | se-s |
| | де-д |
| | ce-d |
| | де-д |
| lortnos paitdpil | Ae-s |
| | те-А |
| | Ee-A |
| trpil pot tort | де-д |
| (R) trpil pninnur emitysb | Ae-A |
| | Ee-A |
| pnitdpil | Ee-A |
| (obia) noitizoq dlud trpil | a2-8 |
| (1691) noitizog diud trpil | aa-s |
| (triort) noitizoq dlud trpil | 2a-8 |
| | A2-8 |
| | A2-8 |
| | aS-A |
| stapttil ent eningqo | SS-A |
| | ES-A |
| | ES-A |
| etsprtil | SS-A |
| (retuqmos qint) noitsmotai qit | ٨-٢٢ |
| | ٨-٥٢ |
| | 08-A |
| | ٨-٢٢ |
| (metaya | ar-d |
| | |

Table:

[Summary]
The orr-a metaya lotros stemil isunsm is ES-8.
The orr-a metaya lotros stemil isunsm is 1S-8.
The orr-a metaya lotros stemil isunsm is 15-8.
The orr-a metaya lotros stemil isunsm is a-8.
The orr-a metaya lotros stemil isunsm is 2-8.
The orr-a metaya lotros stemil isunsm is A2-8
adlud atripil.
The orr-a metaya lotros stemil isunsm is 70292
8-AS.
The orr-a metaya lotros stemil isunsm is 51-8.
The orr-a metaya lotros stemil isunsm is S5-8.
The orr-a metaya lotros stemil isunsm is as-8
vetted.
The orr-a metaya lotros stemil isunsm is SS-8.

[Specifications]
Orr-A metaya lotros stemil Isunsm: ES-8
Orr-A metaya lotros stemil Isunsm: 1S-8
Orr-A metaya lotros stemil Isunsm: 15-8
Orr-A metaya lotros stemil Isunsm: a-8
Orr-A metaya lotros stemil Isunsm: 2-8
Orr-A metaya lotros stemil Isunsm: A2-8
adlud atripil
Orr-A metaya lotros stemil Isunsm: 70292
8-AS
Orr-A metaya lotros stemil Isunsm: 51-8
Orr-A metaya lotros stemil Isunsm: S5-8
Orr-A metaya lotros stemil Isunsm: as-8
vetted
Orr-A metaya lotros stemil Isunsm: SS-8

[Table Data]
| | | Orr-A metaya lotros stemil Isunsm |
|:---:|:---:|:---|
| | | ES-8 |
| | 08-A | 1S-8 |
| | 8a-A | 15-8 |
| | га-А | a-8 |
| apritter | as-a | 2-8 |
| noitsteqo | TS-a | A2-8
adlud atripil |
| anoitstimil bris noitonutlem | es-a | 70292
8-AS |
| | as-a | 51-8 |
| | 85-a | S5-8 |
| | er-a | as-8
vetted |
| enoitstimil bas noitonutlem | 18-a | SS-8 |
| | 85-a | |

Table:

[Summary]
The ams| ronim ytinsv is aOr-A.
The amisl moor is ZOr-A.
The qms xod svole is a0r-A.
The noitonut 770 mut bitsmotus is AOT-A.
The trpil roiretri is AOT-A.
The metaya is ZEr-A.
The toltuo rowog is AET-D.
The soon to is 8EI-A.
The t692 noitslitnov tis is SET-A.

[Specifications]
ams| ronim ytinsv: aOr-A
amisl moor: ZOr-A
qms xod svole: a0r-A
noitonut 770 mut bitsmotus: AOT-A
trpil roiretri: AOT-A
metaya: ZEr-A
toltuo rowog: AET-D
Soon to: 8EI-A
t692 noitslitnov Tis: SET-A

[Table Data]
| ams| ronim ytinsv | aOr-A |
| amisl moor | ZOr-A |
| | DOI-Д |
| | aOr-A |
| qms xod svole | a0r-A |
| noitonut 770 mut bitsmotus | AOT-A |
| trpil roiretri | AOT-A |
| metaya | ZEr-A |
| |
| | EET-A |
| | EET-A |
| | |
| toltuo rowog | AET-D |
| | 8EI-A |
| | OET-A |
| Soon to | 8EI-A |
| t692 noitslitnov Tis | SET-A |
| | OET-A |

Table:

[Summary]
The enigne et enitiste is r-a.
The rotiwa noitinpi betsnimulll is d-₫.
The noitizog notiwe noitinpl is a-a.

[Specifications]
enigne et enitiste: r-a
rotiwa noitinpi betsnimulll: d-₫
noitizog notiwe noitinpl: a-a

[Table Data]
| | Г-А |
|:---:|:---:|
| | a-A |
| | a-d |
| enigne et enitiste | r-a |
| rotiwa noitinpi betsnimulll | d-₫ |
| noitizog notiwe noitinpl | a-a |
| | a-a |

interior features
air ventilation seat
coat hook
cup holder
floor mat anchor(s)
power outlet
seat warmer
sun visor
USB charger
wireless smart phone charging
system
interior light
automatic turn off function
glove box lamp
luggage room lamp
map lamp
room lamp
vanity mirror lamp
jump-starting
key positions
Ignition switch position
Illuminated ignition switch
starting the engine
keys
battery replacement
smart key
L
lane following assist (LFA)
malfunction and limitations
operation
settings
lane keeping assist (LKA)
malfunction and limitations
operation
LCD display
_CD display modes
LCD display messages
4-130 LCD display modes
4-132 driver assistance settings (infotainment
4-138 system)
4-130 LCD displays
4-138 LCD display messages
4-134 service mode
4-131 trip information (trip computer)
emergency liftgate safety release
4-135 opening the liftgate
4-106 bulb replacement precaution
4-105 light bulb position (front)
4-104 light bulb position (rear)
4-105 light bulb position (side)
4-105 lighting
battery saver function
daytime running light (DRL)
front fog light
7-5 headlamp delay function
high beam assist (HBA)
lighting control
one-touch lane change
5-6 operating high beam
5-6 operating turn signals
5-6 lighting control
5-7 auto light
4-6 head light (low beam)
4-6 position and tail lamp
4-7 luggage net holder
M
6-78 maintenance
6-81 air cleaner filter
6-79 battery
6-78 climate control air filter
6-25 engine coolant
6-29 fuses
6-27 lights bulbs
6-26 maintenance services
4-67 owner maintenance
4-68 parking brake
4-80 washer fluid
wiper blades
manual climate control system 4-110

--- Page 533 ---
ObEN 2ONLCE 201|M9LE NOJ|CE

Table: ObEN 2ONLCE 201|M9LE NOJ|CE

[Summary]
The 4-42 is 21196obeu1(02.

[Specifications]
4-42: 21196obeu1(02

[Table Data]
| T-TV | |
|:---:|:---:|
| 4-42 | |
| 4-44 | |
| 4-de | |
| 4-42 | 21196obeu1(02 |
| | |
| T-T2 | |
| 8-51 | |

Table: ObEN 2ONLCE 201|M9LE NOJ|CE

[Summary]
The t-js is HELDENSINLE CONFLOI.
The 7-20 is WILLONE.

[Specifications]
T-JS: HELDENSINLE CONFLOI
7-20: WILLONE

[Table Data]
| | |
|:---:|:---:|
| T-JJ3 | |
| | |
| T-JJJ | |
| 4-JJ5 | |
| T-JS | HELDENSINLE CONFLOI |
| | |
| e-te | |
| e-tz | |
| 7-20 | WILLONE |
| 7-20 | |
| 7-2а | |

Table: ObEN 2ONLCE 201|M9LE NOJ|CE

[Summary]
The 3-13 is 10912694 M99/.
The e-jot is (bDM).

[Specifications]
3-13: 10912694 M99/
e-Jot: (bDM)

[Table Data]
| e-de | |
| e-JoJ | |
| e-a8 | |
| e-de | |
| 3-13 | 10912694 M99/ |
| e-81 | |
| as-e | |
| e-88 | |
| e-81 | |
| | |
| | |
| e-Jus | |
| e-J+ | |
| e-J3 | |
| e-Jus | |
| | |
| e-Jot | (bDM) |
| e-Joe | |
| | |
| e-Jor | |
| | |
| 1-2 | |
| | 100tL9CK |

Table: ObEN 2ONLCE 201|M9LE NOJ|CE

[Summary]
The 4-58 is NOM JO LEZGI.

[Specifications]
4-58: NOM JO LEZGI

[Table Data]
| T-SP | |
| n-se | |
| 4-58 | NOM JO LEZGI |
| サ-5」 | |
| 8-58 | |
| t-se | |
| 7-58 | |
| | |
| 4-50 | |
| T-J3$ | |
| 4-3e | |
| 3-55 | |
| s-e | |

air conditioning
controlling air intake
controlling fan speed
heating and air conditioning
mode selection
temperature control
manual speed limit assist
(MSLA)
operation
mirrors
inside rear view mirror
outside rear view mirror
N
navigation-based smart cruise
control (NSCC)
limitations
operation
settings
O
occupant detection system
(ODS)
odometer
one-touch lane change
online factory authorized
manuals
open source software notice
opening the hood
outside rear view mirror
adjusting the outside rear view
milding the outside rear view mirror
overloading
P
panoramic sunroof
automatic reversal
power sunshade
resetting the sunroof
slide open/close
sunroof open warning
tilt open/close
parking brake
4-113 closing the lift are
4-111 opening height setting
4-112 prove irase opening helit use?
6-45 power window lock Buton
4-59 pre-tensioner seat belt
push-starting
R
6-72 rear cross-traffic collision-
6-75 avoidance assist (RCCA)
6-73 malfunction and limitations
6-73 operation
settings
rear seat headrest
rear view monitor (RVM)
3-39 malfunction and limitations
4-65 operation
settings
4-96 reporting safety defects
reverse parking collision-avoidance
9-14 assist (PCA)
1-6 malfunction and limitations
4-38 operation
4-59 settings
reverse parking distance warning
4-60 malfunction and precautions
5-74 operation
settings
risk of burns when parking or
stopping vehicle
4-44 roof rack
4-46 S
4-45 safe exit warning (SEW)
4-47 malfunction and limitations
4-45 operation
8-21 settings

--- Page 534 ---
Table:

[Row Contents]
Row 0: anoitstimil bas noitonutlem, 8a-a
Row 1: lottros bris yalqaib, a-as
Row 2: oa-a
Row 3: esd nis obia, aA-E, rpnitter, se-a
Row 4: er-s, noitsrego, ее-a
Row 5: El-E, anoitstimil bas noitnutism, ae-a
Row 6: MIM (E9Z, TEr-A, (MV2) totinom weiv bauonua, re-a
Row 7: 8-€,Г-8, 102iv กม2, EEl-A
Row 8: prinsw, 81-E, ear-A
Row 9: SS-E, xod avole, OEr-A
Row 10: AS-E, est-s
Row 11: as-E, est-A
Row 12: 8A-A
Row 13: nion, Oa-A
Row 14: atled t692, Г-Е, eA-s
Row 15: El-E, ГА-А
Row 16: F-E, loenw pninssta, ГА-А
Row 17: metaya tremnistotni, 8-€, ir-a
Row 18: e-E
Row 19: or-a
Row 20: AT-E, Ntiw enigne ent enitsta
Row 21: †29าmา6, Al-E, or-a
Row 22: t692p, 2-E
Row 23: lortno noitslitev beluberba, est-s, Ea-A
Row 24: noitมธว91q, 8-8, e-e
Row 25: e-e
Row 26: ae
Row 27: E1-8, Isdsl 9าม2291q brs noiteaitisge sit, or-e
Row 28: 19dsl tnstopirt9y, or-e
Row 29: atlod pritnuom noianequa, +7-8, A-e
Row 30: trioi llsd mis, AI-8, ٥-٢
Row 31: E-e
Row 32: E1-8, or-e
Row 33: A1-8, E-e
Row 34: s-e
Row 35: ar-8, epsttow dlud, a-e
Row 36: A1-8, metaya prinoitibnos 1is, A-e
Row 37: a1-8, or-e
Row 38: metava priloos, カ78, s-e
Row 39: trisloos, ▶7-8, a-as
Row 40: ▶7-8, 93uo wor, es-A
Row 41: ▶7-8, besotivsta to row, 「ミ-カ
Row 42: ▶7-8, TE-A
Row 43: biult noizzimensit bitsmotus, A1-8, nego otus ntiw atsettil trsma, es-A
Row 44: †nstopirto pninoitibnoo vis, a1-8, noitoreqo, 8-A
Row 45: E1-8, e-s
Row 46: E1-8, VeN tisma, ٢-A
Row 47: E-E, agnitter, da-a, ra-a

[Table Data]
| anoitstimil bas noitonutlem | 8a-a | | |
| lottros bris yalqaib | a-as | | |
| | oa-a | | |
| esd nis obia | aA-E | rpnitter | se-a |
| | er-s | noitsrego | ее-a |
| | El-E | anoitstimil bas noitnutism | ae-a |
| MIM (E9Z | TEr-A | (MV2) totinom weiv bauonua | re-a |
| | 8-€,Г-8 | 102iv กม2 | EEl-A |
| prinsw | 81-E | | ear-A |
| | SS-E | xod avole | OEr-A |
| | AS-E | | est-s |
| | as-E | | est-A |
| | | | 8A-A |
| | | nion | Oa-A |
| atled t692 | Г-Е | | eA-s |
| | El-E | | ГА-А |
| | F-E | loenw pninssta | ГА-А |
| metaya tremnistotni | 8-€ | | ir-a |
| | e-E | | |
| | | | or-a |
| | AT-E | Ntiw enigne ent enitsta | |
| †29าmา6 | Al-E | | or-a |
| t692p | 2-E | | |
| lortno noitslitev beluberba | est-s | | Ea-A |
| noitมธว91q | 8-8 | | e-e |
| | | | e-e |
| | | | ae |
| | E1-8 | Isdsl 9าม2291q brs noiteaitisge sit | or-e |
| | | 19dsl tnstopirt9y | or-e |
| atlod pritnuom noianequa | +7-8 | | A-e |
| trioi llsd mis | AI-8 | | ٥-٢ |
| | | | E-e |
| | E1-8 | | or-e |
| | A1-8 | | E-e |
| | | | s-e |
| | ar-8 | epsttow dlud | a-e |
| | A1-8 | metaya prinoitibnos 1is | A-e |
| | a1-8 | | or-e |
| metava priloos | カ78 | | s-e |
| trisloos | ▶7-8 | | a-as |
| | ▶7-8 | 93uo wor | es-A |
| | ▶7-8 | besotivsta to row | 「ミ-カ |
| | ▶7-8 | | TE-A |
| biult noizzimensit bitsmotus | A1-8 | nego otus ntiw atsettil trsma | es-A |
| †nstopirto pninoitibnoo vis | a1-8 | noitoreqo | 8-A |
| | E1-8 | | e-s |
| | E1-8 | VeN tisma | ٢-A |
| | E-E | agnitter | da-a, ra-a |

safety precautions
scheduled maintenance items
air cleaner filter
air conditioning refrigerant
automatic transmission fluid
brake discs, pads and calipers
brake fluid
brake hoses and lines
coolant
cooling system
drive shafts and boots
Exhaust pipe and muffler
fluid levels
fuel lines, fuel hoses and connections 8-13
parking brake
spark plugs
steering gear box, linkage & boots/lower
arm ball joint
suspension mounting bolts
vacuum crankcase ventilation hoses
vapor hose and tuel filler cap
scheduled maintenance service 8-8
scheduled maintenance service
precaution
scheduled ventilation control
seat
armrest
folding the rear seat
front seat adjustment for manual seat 3-8
front seat adjustment for power seat
infotainment system
seat leather
seatback pocket
seat belts
3-point system with emergency locking
retractor
care of seat belts
precautions
pre-tensioner seat belt
warning
seat leather 3-7,3-8
seat warmer
seatback pocket
service mode
side air bag
smart cruise control (SCC)
display and control
malfunction and limitations
3-3 settings 6-61, 6-64
8-15 air conditioner compressor label
8-14 air conditioning system
8-14 engine
8-13 engine number
gross vehicle weight
8-14 lubricants and capacities
8-14 luggage volume
8-13 refrigerant label
8-13 tire specification and pressure label
tires and wheels
vehicle certification label
8-8 vehicle identification number (VIN)
4-129 speedometer
3-5 starting the engine
3-14 starting the engine
3-14 starting the engine with
smart key
3-9 starting the gasoline engine
3-8 starting the gasoline engine
3-7 steering wheel
3-13 electric power steering (EPS)
3-17 heated steering wheel
horn
3-19 tilt & telescopic steering wheel
3-7,3-8 sun visor
4-131 surround view monitor (SVM
3-13 malfunction and limitations

--- Page 535 ---
etsmib\tnamnistotni ent pnizu

T
tachometer
theft-alarm system
armed stage
disarmed stage
theft-alarm stage
tire pressure monitoring system
(TPMS)
effective use of the TPMS
tire replacement with TPMS
tires and wheels
all season tires
checking tire inflation pressure
radial-ply tires
snow tires
summer tires
tire chains
tire maintenance
fire replacement
tire rotation
tire sidewall labeling
tire terminology and definitions
tire traction
wheel replacement
towing
without wheel dollies
trailer towing
driving with a trailer
hitches
maintenance
pull a trailer
safety chains
trailer brakes
transmission shift indicator
automatic transmission shift
indicator
trip information (trip computer)
anoumulated driving information
drive info display
fuel economy
trip modes
U
4-64 USB charger
4-12 using the infotainment/climate
4-12 switchable controller
V
7-8 vehicle auto shut-off system
7-8 vehicle break-in process
7-11 vehicle data collection and event
8-29 data recorders
8-30 vehicle handling instructions
vehicle identification number
8-41 (VIN)
8-40 vehicle load limit
8-40 vehicle modifications
8-33 vehicle settings (infotainment
8-32 system)
8-31 vehicle weight
8-33 W
8-33 warning and indicator lights
7-26 indicator lights
7-26 warning lights
5-64 washer fluid
5-63 welcome system
5-67 window opening and closing
5-67 windows
5-64 indow opening and closin
4-66 indshield defrostina an
defoging logic
wireless smart phone charging
system

--- Page 536 ---
•OИ APІRMA AIX ESOS

Movement that inspires
2023 KIA AMERICA, INC.
" Printed with soy-based ink on recycled
paper. we support a healthy planet anc
better tomorrow."
